
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74373 ***





  The Giant Sorcerer

  or

  _The Extraordinary Adventures of
  Raphael and Cassandra_


[Illustration: THE NAVY OF THE ATLANTIC PASSED SLOWLY BEFORE THE
  PRESIDENT (_page 40_)]




  _The_ GIANT
  SORCERER

  OR

  THE EXTRAORDINARY ADVENTURES
  OF RAPHAEL AND CASSANDRA:

  _by_

  WILLIAM WHITMAN 3^{RD}

  PICTURES
  by FRANK BOYD

  HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY
  BOSTON    NEW YORK

  [Illustration]




  COPYRIGHT, 1927, BY WILLIAM WHITMAN, 3RD
  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

  The Riverside Press
  CAMBRIDGE · MASSACHUSETTS
  PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.




  TO
  WILLIAM WHITMAN
  WILLIAM WHITMAN, JR.
  AND
  WILLIAM WHITMAN, 4^{TH}




CONTENTS


     I. THE GIANT SORCERER                 1

    II. GÆA, THE EARTH MOTHER              7

   III. THE CASTLE OF THE SORCERER        14

    IV. DOWN TO THE SEA                   20

     V. HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT      28

    VI. OFF TO WAR                        36

   VII. EAGLES! EAGLES!                   44

  VIII. ON TO MECHANA                     52

    IX. THE COUNCIL OF THE ANIMALS        62

     X. THE CAPTURE OF RAPHAEL            74

    XI. THE GARDEN OF THE SORCERER        85

   XII. MECHANA                           95

  XIII. TO SAVE THE WORLD                107

   XIV. THE BATTLE OF THE CITY           115

    XV. VICTORY AND DEFEAT               123




ILLUSTRATIONS


  THE NAVY OF THE ATLANTIC PASSED SLOWLY BEFORE
    THE PRESIDENT                                  _Frontispiece_

  ‘I AM MECHANUS, THE GIANT SORCERER’                           4

  ‘IS THIS THE SORCERER’S CASTLE?’ RAPHAEL SHOUTED             14

  ‘MISS COD, INDEED!’ MOUTHED THE CODFISH                      22

  ‘I SHOULDN’T GO IN THERE IF I WERE YOU,’ WARNED THE
    SEA HORSE                                                  46

  ‘DOES THAT ROAD LEAD TO MECHANA?’                            56

  RAPHAEL SEATED HIMSELF ON A DRY LOG                          58

  ‘A MOUSE MIGHT BE ABLE TO FIND OUT MORE THAN ANY
    OF THE REST OF US’                                         68

  THE MECHANICO DISAPPEARED AND SUMMONED A LARGE
    GANG OF OTHER MECHANICOS                                   88

  CASSANDRA SKIPPED GAYLY ALONG BESIDE RAPHAEL
    WHO TRIED TO KEEP STEP WITH MECHANUS                       96

  THE THING CAME SUDDENLY TO LIFE MARCHING OFF IN
    COMPANY WITH FIFTY OTHERS                                 102

  THE WAR WAS OVER                                            120




[Illustration]

The Giant Sorcerer

∵




CHAPTER I

THE GIANT SORCERER


Raphael and Cassandra lived with their Aunt Mary in a white house which
was tucked away from the road in a group of five elm trees. Behind the
house was a white barn with a green door, and beside the barn to the
west lay the orchard enclosed by a gray stone wall.

Often Raphael would lean out of the nursery window and wonder what lay
beyond the wooded hill that sheltered the little farm from the north
wind. There must be, he thought, great cities and seas and mountains.
And animals like the tigers and giraffes which chased each other round
his bedroom wall paper. Some day he would take Cassie and run away and
visit these places. They would see the whole world for themselves.

One night when Raphael went to bed, he did not fall asleep. Instead he
lay and watched the moonlight on the window sill. Across the room he
could see the white outline of Cassandra’s bed, and Cassie a motionless
white mound asleep in it. To-morrow, he thought, sleepily, I must build
a house for the robins. Habakkuk needs a bath and a new collar. Why do
dogs hate baths? Why do I hate to have my face washed? Everything Aunt
Mary called good was hateful.

A railroad engine hooted for the crossing a mile beyond the barn.
Raphael heard the roar and rattle of the cars as they pounded over
the tracks which curved through the valley like sleeping snakes.
Trains were fast and powerful. He loved to watch them race to and from
Uniontown.

Then a strange thing happened. Cassandra stirred in bed, pushing aside
the blankets. Raphael watched her rise and walk to the open window. He
was about to whisper to her, when she climbed over the sill onto the
little porch which jutted out over the back door. Raphael immediately
jumped from his bed and crossed to the window.

While he looked out, his sister climbed down the trellis that edged the
porch and walked like a little white ghost past the barn and into the
orchard that lay along the slope of the hill. Raphael followed quietly.
Aunt Mary would be very angry if she knew they were out of bed.

Everything was moist and silver in the moonlight. The grass bent under
Raphael’s feet as he hurried through the orchard and over the stone
wall that rimmed the woods. By the time he had crossed the rough wall
and felt the little sticks of the wood path under his bare feet,
Cassandra had disappeared. Raphael hitched up his purple pajamas and
ran.

He had taken only a few steps when to his amazement he heard the sound
of voices. He stopped short, listened a moment, and then crept forward.
He saw his sister standing before a tall figure which blocked the wood
path. Raphael could not see the stranger’s face, but he heard him say:

‘If you will come with me, Cassandra, I will take you to a city full of
strange toys. You shall have dolls to play with, dolls that walk and
talk; and houses for them to live in with running water and elevators
and electric lights. You shall have a little automobile, and a great
store full of toys all to yourself.’

‘Yes,’ whispered Cassandra.

‘Will you come with me?’ went on the stranger. ‘You needn’t be afraid.
I won’t harm you.’

‘Yes,’ repeated Cassandra. Her voice was husky with sleep.

‘Come, then,’ commanded the stranger and held out his arms. ‘I order
it. You cannot disobey.’

[Illustration: ‘I AM MECHANUS, THE GIANT SORCERER’]

Raphael, who had crept close in order to hear more clearly what the
stranger said, sprang forward.

‘Cassie! Cassie!’ he cried. ‘Wait! Wait!’

The stranger took Cassandra in his round arms. ‘Boy,’ he ordered, ‘go
home to bed.’

‘Who are you?’ demanded Raphael.

‘I am Mechanus, the Giant Sorcerer,’ answered the stranger proudly.

Raphael looked at him fearfully. In the moonlight he appeared black and
very terrible holding Cassandra so easily. He was taller than any man
the boy had ever seen, and his eyes shone like pale electric lights. He
was dressed in some light material that merged into the dark shadows.

‘Are you a man?’ whispered Raphael, awed.

‘No,’ said the Sorcerer conversationally. ‘I am a mechanical wonder
invented by man to be greater than all men.’

‘What do you want with Cassandra?’ asked Raphael, taking heart.

‘My boy,’ exclaimed Mechanus, ‘that happens to be my affair. She will
go home with me because I want her to.’

She would go home with him, Cassandra, his sister, and he would never
see her any more. A mechanical wonder greater than all men blocked the
path.

‘You shan’t take Cassie away! I don’t care if you are a sorcerer!’
screamed Raphael desperately and dashed at the stranger.

Cold fingers like steel hooks lifted him to one side, and a metallic
voice rang in his ears, ‘Be quiet, young fool!’

Raphael felt himself falling slowly into space.




CHAPTER II

GÆA, THE EARTH MOTHER


When Raphael woke, he was lying alone in the moonlight. Cassandra and
the stranger had disappeared. The woods were very still. His head
ached. Slowly the boy got to his feet and stumbled along the path which
led to a small clearing at the top of the hill. Here he sat down on a
large stone. Cassie was stolen!

Raphael was about to turn and run home when he heard the whistle of
wings, and looking up saw a huge bird sail over the black tree-tops and
light on the ground before him. Raphael was so astonished he could not
move. He sat and stared in numb amazement.

‘Well,’ said the bird sharply, as he peered at him out of one yellow
eye.

‘Who are you?’ asked Raphael faintly.

‘I am Empyrean, Chief of All the Eagles in the Sky, General of All the
Armies of the Air.’

‘Oh,’ gasped Raphael. Then, because he felt powerless and lonely, he
sniffled, ‘Cassie has been stolen. A sorcerer came and took her away.’

‘Stop crying!’ ordered the eagle fiercely.

Raphael dried his tears on an arm of his pajamas.

‘Tell me what happened,’ demanded the eagle.

‘Mechanus, the Giant Sorcerer, stole Cassie.’

‘Which way did they go?’ asked the eagle.

‘I don’t know. The Sorcerer knocked me down.’

The eagle said nothing for a moment, but stared straight at Raphael
until he felt uncomfortable.

‘We shall find them. Come with me,’ the eagle commanded.

‘But how can I go?’ asked the boy.

‘I shall take you. Climb on my back. Hurry,’ ordered the bird when he
saw that Raphael hesitated. ‘I won’t hurt you.’

He looked so fierce with his hooked yellow bill and curved talons
that Raphael did not dare to disobey. He crawled clumsily astride the
eagle’s neck and settled back between his great wings.

‘Are you ready?’ asked the bird.

‘Yes,’ answered Raphael breathlessly.

The eagle raised his wings and leapt into space. There was a slight
shock as though they had jumped into a nest of down, and then with
increasing speed the eagle forced his way higher and higher. Raphael
could feel each upward surge as the wings rose and fell. The wind
whistled in his ears a thin song.

Raphael thought of Cassandra and then of Aunt Mary. Would she cry when
she learned that he and his sister had gone away? Would she blame him
for letting the Giant Sorcerer steal Cassandra? He choked back the lump
rising in his throat.

Suddenly he noticed that it was quite light, that it was morning.
He looked ahead and saw the sun rising over a great mountain that
stretched across the horizon. The night shadows were gathered like a
curtain from a painting. When Raphael looked below, he could see great
rolling forests laced by silver rivers. The eagle flew rapidly on.

Steadily they drew near the mountain, and Raphael noticed that they
were rising higher and higher. Other great birds, eagles the boy
supposed, swept down from the air and joined them, sailing round in
great circles with fierce cries of welcome. It was cold flying so high
in the air. Raphael shivered and leant back against the warm feathers
of Empyrean.

They lit on the peak of the mountain just as the sun crowned the summit
with light. One by one the other eagles swooped down and joined them on
the bare rock.

Chief of All the Eagles turned to them and demanded, ‘Have you any
news?’

‘We have news!’ screamed the eagles.

‘Quickly, then, let us make this boy one of us, in the name of Gæa!’ At
this all the eagles raised their wings and bowed their heads reverently.

‘Are--are we going to save Cassie?’ asked Raphael nervously.

‘With the aid of Gæa she shall be saved,’ answered Chief of All the
Eagles in the Sky.

‘Who is Gæa? Did she send you to help me? How did she know Cassie had
been stolen?’

‘My son,’ said Empyrean sternly, ‘Gæa is the Earth Mother who knows all
things. You shall learn more later.’

For a moment the eagle stared into the rising sun. Then, turning to
Raphael, who did not dare to question further, he ordered him to take
off his clothes. When Raphael stood naked upon the rock, the eagles
solemnly bowed their heads as though in prayer. After which they
presented Raphael with a magnificent suit of black feathers which
buttoned up the front with clasps of luminous stone.

When Raphael had put on his new clothes, Chief of All the Eagles in the
Sky spoke:

‘Comrades, I had a dream. And in my dream Gæa, the Earth Mother, the
All-Powerful, appeared to me and told me of the Giant Sorcerer and of
the great war between all nature and mechanics that is to be. Then She
said, “A child shall save you, if it is written that you will be saved.
Bless him with my power over land and sky and sea.” The dream changed
and I saw a boy alone upon a hillside. I woke. And we are here!’

The eagles stirred uneasily, but said nothing. Empyrean continued,
turning to Raphael, ‘In the name of Gæa I confer on you power over the
Earth, the Air, and the Sea. Through Her you may command nature, the
wind, the thunder, the lightning, the earthquake, and the volcano.

‘Already we have called upon all the people to help us, the animals,
the birds, the fish, and the reptiles. In this way we shall crush the
Giant Sorcerer, who is our enemy.’

The eagle, whose voice had grown louder and louder, strutted fiercely
up and down. When he finished, all the eagles screamed together, and
struck their breasts, and raised their wings. Anger flashed from their
yellow eyes.

Then as at a signal they rose from the mountain on which they stood and
flew in a circle above it. Faster and faster they flew, their wings
sounding the thunder of flight.

‘Climb on my back quickly,’ commanded Chief of All the Eagles in the
Sky.

When Raphael was seated, Empyrean darted into the air, and led his
warriors up and up until the boy felt dizzy in the cold light air.

‘Behold!’ screamed the eagle suddenly.

Raphael looked down. Beyond the mountain lay the blue-white sea
shimmering in the sunlight. Far below he noticed a black speck outlined
against the ocean. It looked in the distance like a dragonfly. All the
eagles cried out fiercely and beat their wings.

‘What’s the matter? What’s that?’ Raphael yelled, leaning along the
eagle’s neck. ‘Is it an aeroplane?’

‘Yes,’ screamed the eagle.

‘Is it the Giant Sorcerer?’ gasped Raphael.

Chief of All the Eagles did not answer, but folding his wings dropped
like a meteor toward the earth. Behind them swept the others like
falling stars.




CHAPTER III

THE CASTLE OF THE SORCERER


They fell earthward until Raphael felt dizzy and sick. His ears hummed;
his stomach rose. He shut his eyes and clutched desperately at the
feathers along the eagle’s back. After an agony of excitement, the
wind-song died to a hum; they dropped less rapidly, and Raphael with a
gulp opened his eyes.

They were flying above the sea, which appeared in the morning light
to be covered by a bright sheet of silver mail. The aeroplane of the
Sorcerer had disappeared.

The eagles bore Raphael swiftly toward a cloud which lay in the
distance above the ocean. As they drew near, the cloud changed, and
land appeared rising fresh and green out of the sea. On this land the
boy made out a great palace of white marble.

‘Is this the Sorcerer’s castle?’ Raphael shouted into his friend’s ear.

[Illustration: ‘IS THIS THE SORCERER’S CASTLE?’ RAPHAEL SHOUTED]

Empyrean nodded.

First the eagles flew round the castle from left to right, and Raphael
marveled that there were no doors, no windows in this strange building.
All he saw were blind walls which towered heavenward, a huge pillar of
cream-white stone.

When the eagles had circled the building three times, they flew
directly across the top. On the roof was an immense court surrounded
by walls and shaped like the inside of a saucer. Within this bowl lay
the aeroplane of the Sorcerer. Raphael saw figures running about on the
roof.

Beside the large island lay a little one, barren and brown like the
naked back of a sea monster. Here the eagles gathered together for a
council of war. After many impatient and fierce proposals from his
followers, Chief of All the Eagles in the Sky spoke:

‘We have come, O Eagles, to save the sister of our friend and to war
against our enemy, the Sorcerer. But harken. We pit our strength and
cunning against a powerful foe who has magic at his command about which
we know little. Our brother,’--the eagle motioned toward Raphael--‘is
of another people, a people more accustomed than we to such machines as
this Sorcerer is lord over. Therefore it seems advisable to me that he
go forth and bring us news.’

The eagle ceased to speak. The bird-warriors turned and stared at the
boy, who, proud and self-conscious, bowed his head in assent. His first
test had come.

Calling upon Gæa, as Empyrean had instructed him, Raphael claimed the
powers of a water spider, and turned toward the water that separated
the little island from the larger one. He was to try the powers granted
him by the Queen Mother. Would the sea hold him? He stepped nervously
onto a wave that broke in a carpet of white foam at his feet, and took
a hasty step forward, then another. It was partly like walking over an
uneven floor, partly like climbing a moving sandhill.

Far below on the bottom of the ocean he could hear clams chanting a
hymn of triumph in which he distinctly caught the echo of his own name.

In a few moments Raphael stood on the shore of the main island
underneath the walls of the Sorcerer’s castle. The tall blocks of
stone which seemed to pierce the reeling sky were cold to his touch.
There was no life, no movement on the whole island. Even the palms
which fringed the shore were motionless. Only a large steel sign that
read, _Keep Out! This Means You!_ hinted at human occupation. To the
castle itself he could find neither door nor window. That’s very queer,
thought the boy.

Calling upon Gæa for the powers of a bird, Raphael raised his hands
above his head and stood upon his toes. Then, using his arms as wings,
he jumped upward. It was like beating a very soft feather pillow.
Slowly the boy left the ground, kicking awkwardly with his legs; and
lit, out of breath and sprawling, in the saucer-like basin where he
had last seen the aeroplane of the Sorcerer. The roof was deserted
and bleak. Only the thin outline of a large trapdoor showed where the
Sorcerer had entered his stronghold.

Raphael walked about nervously, expecting to be attacked at any
moment. He could see no sign of life, and yet he felt that invisible
eyes watched him.

There must be, he thought, another door to this castle under the sea.

Raphael leapt from the roof to fly back to the eagles. He dropped
earthward, and only by beating the air wildly with his outstretched
arms could he regain his balance. With a sense of relief he landed
fluttering like a wounded bird on the little island.

When he told the eagles what he had found, they burst into a shrill
clamor devising schemes of war. As before, Chief of All the Eagles in
the Sky was the last to speak:

‘Comrades, since you demand war, there shall be war. But I believe
you underestimate the power and resource of the enemy. Before we use
violence, let us discover whether there is another entrance to this
castle through which the Sorcerer might escape. Although a journey
below the sea is not possible for eagles, to Raphael, who has power
over the sea, it should not be difficult.

‘My boy’--he turned to Raphael--‘I charge you with this mission. Go to
the King or President of the Atlantic, for I think that he will help
us.’

In this way the conference ended.


[Illustration]




CHAPTER IV

DOWN TO THE SEA


Calling upon the power of a dolphin, Raphael walked down into the sea.
When the green water closed over his head, he realized that he had
entered a new world, as strange as the earth which he had left. He
took a breath cautiously and found that he could breathe. I wonder, he
thought, whether the fish know that there is another world on top of
the water, and that there are other worlds even beyond that.

Raphael climbed slowly down a great cinder cliff to which clung odd
mosses and seaweed. He was looking for some sign of life in the silent
depths when he stumbled carelessly over a rock and started to fall. It
was then he noticed for the first time the peculiar nature of the land
he was in. Instead of falling, he tipped forward and settled gently
through the water face down. Why, thought Raphael, this is like flying.
And he swam a few strokes.

At the bottom of the cliff, he sat down to rest in a large bush of
seaweed which floated soft green branches toward him. He was out of
breath.

‘Be careful,’ said a voice at his elbow as he was about to settle back
comfortably. ‘There is a sea urchin almost underneath you.’

Raphael struggled to his feet as fast as he could. He saw no living
thing, however, until he looked up. Above him finned a large pop-eyed
fish which stared down at him coldly.

‘Oh,’ said Raphael, ‘I didn’t expect to see you there.’

‘Didn’t you?’ asked the fish sarcastically.

Raphael flushed, but replied politely. ‘May I ask, Sir or Madam, what a
sea urchin is?’

The fish eyed him angrily. ‘My name is Mary Cod.’

And she pointed to a little round creature like a black pincushion with
long spines.

‘I beg your pardon,’ answered Raphael humbly. ‘I suppose I should have
recognized you.’

‘You could not be expected to know me,’ sneered the cod in a temper.
‘We look quite different on a dinner-table.’

Raphael was shocked at this. He thought it a joke in rather poor taste.

‘Miss Cod,’ he began, ‘I am sorry to have....’

‘Miss Cod, indeed!’ mouthed the codfish. ‘Tommy, Walter, Archibald,
Augustus, Percy, Angela, Peter, William, and Mary, come here this
minute.’

And Mrs. Cod sailed off, wriggling her fins indignantly, followed by
her family, which dawdled indolently behind, opening and shutting their
mouths.

I wonder if they all belong to her, thought Raphael. They look more
like a school of fish on a lecture tour or an outing.

He was regretting that he had not asked her more about life under the
sea, and where he might find the King or the President of the ocean,
when a small voice fluted in his ear:

‘Do I understand, young man, that you would like to see the President?’

[Illustration: ‘MISS COD, INDEED!’ MOUTHED THE CODFISH]

Again Raphael, startled, looked helplessly about. He was not yet
accustomed to the semi-twilight of the ocean. All he saw were the rocks
down which he had tumbled, and the lacy branches of the seaweed which
pulsed slowly back and forth with the ocean current. He looked up, but
could see nothing except long rays of green light which filtered in
broad bands through the water.

‘Do I understand, young man, that you would like to see the President?’
repeated the voice patiently.

Then Raphael discovered a sea horse hovering like a humming bird so
close to his ear that he had to turn his head to see him. He balanced
upright like a ribbed celluloid toy, and held a branch of green weed in
his tail.

‘I want to see the President very much,’ answered Raphael hastily.

‘Follow me,’ said the sea horse. ‘I have the honor of being Equerry to
the President.’ He started to swim away.

Raphael rose heavily, and, moving his arms in a swimming motion,
followed his guide as rapidly as he could. They went up a steep ridge
and came to a plateau covered with sea grass which moved with the
ocean current like a field of wheat in the wind. As they hurried along,
Raphael saw black shadows drift slowly back and forth, nosing the grass.

‘What are those, Mr. Sea Horse?’ he asked.

‘They are sharks, Mr. Raphael.’

‘Oh,’ said Raphael nervously, and looked about for a bush to hide in.
The sea horse noticed this.

‘They won’t hurt you,’ he said, waiting for Raphael to catch up. ‘They
are far too lazy.’

Raphael and the sea horse swam forward side by side. Now that he was
more used to this strange method of walking, he found that he could
travel quite easily.

‘I met Mrs. Cod,’ he said by way of conversation.

The sea horse laughed without changing his expression. ‘I suppose she
was as cross as usual. She has come south for the winter and has been
complaining of the heat and her family ever since. She belongs farther
north, and not in these semi-tropical waters at all,’ the sea horse
went on to explain, ‘and her family is really quite a trial. Of course
they aren’t all hers. Most fish don’t ever see their children.’

While they were talking, Raphael and the sea horse crossed the
plateau and started to descend. The way became rough, and gigantic,
moss-covered boulders blocked the path. The seaweed grew thicker,
tangling into a rich brown and green jungle of limp branches through
which Raphael found it increasingly difficult to force his way. Great
lava mountains towered above them in ropy hills and cliffs, or overhung
black pits which the rays of the sun could not pierce.

‘Where does the President live?’ asked Raphael after a long silence.

‘Not far from here. I suppose you know that they are all expecting you.’

‘Who is expecting me?’

‘His Excellency, the Cabinet, and the Admirals of the North and South
Atlantic.’

‘Really?’ said Raphael, who had ceased to be surprised at anything.
‘Who told them I was coming?’

‘Gæa, the Queen Mother, sent us word,’ answered the sea horse as he
dipped his body respectfully.

He seemed disinclined to say more and Raphael politely changed the
subject.

‘Would you mind telling me your President’s name?’

‘Willingly,’ answered the sea horse. ‘The President of the Atlantic
democracy is His Excellency, Mr. Albert Right Whale. He was elected, as
you may have heard, on account of his size.’

‘Is the Pacific a democracy also?’ asked Raphael.

‘Oh, dear, no,’ replied the sea horse proudly.

Just then the path they were following joined a broad highway of
white sand which ran between two high mountains. Along this road swam
thousands of fish, more fish than Raphael had ever seen. For the most
part they drifted along in schools: gray snappers, muttonfish, and red
and black groupers. Occasionally Raphael and his guide passed a sting
ray asleep like a mottled fungus on the ocean floor. And once they
came upon an immense octopus shambling along on his knuckles.

The road gradually narrowed to a gateway between two walls of black
obsidian. Most of the fish made no effort to pass this barrier, but
swam slowly in a circle about the entrance. Many of them turned away
and drifted silently back the way they had come like ghosts.

‘Here we are,’ said the sea horse. ‘Follow me.’


[Illustration]




CHAPTER V

HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT


Raphael and the sea horse swam through the gateway, which was guarded
by two gray octopi, and entered a huge amphitheater. On all sides
rose black hills covered with brown ooze. The floor was coral, whose
pink-and-white branches were laced into miniature caves and grottoes in
which lived strange crabs and small beautifully tinted fish. Clinging
to the coral, brown sea fans waved in the pulse of the ocean, while
here and there sea anemones bloomed like giant white chrysanthemums.
Through this garden swam silver moonfish, striped black-and-white angel
fish, and the spotted red and green rockhind.

After a quick glance Raphael paid them little attention as he moved
across the uneven floor. Instead he stared at the indistinct forms
which circled like shadows in the center of the immense arena. He had
never seen such gigantic creatures.

‘Come with me,’ said the sea horse, and piloted him toward a
magnificent black whale who swam sedately about in the center of a
group of admirers. Cabinet ministers, Admiralty, and Senators, thought
Raphael. When they were quite close, the sea horse stopped.

‘Mr. President,’ he announced in his thin small voice, ‘may I introduce
Mr. Raphael, Commander of the Elements, and General of All the Armies
Above and Below the Sea, Emissary Extraordinary of Gæa, the Earth
Mother.’

The sea horse paused and asked Raphael in an aside whether he had any
more titles. ‘For,’ he said, ‘they are very fond of titles in this
democracy.’

The President smiled heavily, dropping his huge lower jaw and exposing
the whalebone strainers in his mouth.

‘Pleased to meet you, Mr. Raphael. We have had word about you.’ And
he held out an immense fluke toward the boy. Raphael’s hand seemed
ridiculously small, but he grasped the outer edge of the rough, oily
flipper manfully.

‘Martha,’ called the President to a slightly smaller black whale, ‘meet
Mr. Raphael.’

At this the First Lady of the Ocean bustled up, quivering with anxiety
to please. ‘Glad to meet any friend of my husband’s,’ she gurgled.
‘You’re a real stranger round these parts.’

Raphael bowed. ‘Mr. President,’ he said, ‘might I have a word with you
in private, if Mrs. Whale will excuse us?’

‘Certainly,’ said the President. ‘My dear, will you pardon us?’ Again
they bowed to one another.

When Mrs. Whale and the sea horse had withdrawn, Raphael turned to
the President. ‘Mr. President,’ he said very fast and without drawing
breath, ‘I have come to ask a favor of you as the Leading Citizen of
the Ocean.’ His Excellency smiled, flattered.

Then Raphael told him about Cassandra, the Sorcerer, and the blind
castle on the island. ‘I have come,’ he concluded, ‘to find a door to
the castle and to ask your help.’

‘Since you come from Gæa, the Queen Mother,’ replied the President in
his best official manner, speaking very carefully, ‘you are more than
welcome to the Sea. But here we are ignorant of the Earth, and such
people as this Giant Sorcerer.

‘Besides this you are a man, and man has done us few favors. Instead
he has destroyed many of our noblest sea families. For this reason our
hearts are hard.’

‘But Mr. President,’ interrupted Raphael excitedly, ‘I don’t want very
much help. All I need is a guard placed about the castle rock in case
the Sorcerer should escape.’

The President was impressed. ‘Well, well,’ he muttered, ‘what you ask
is little. And if we don’t love man, we should probably love a sorcerer
even less.’ He sighed. ‘I don’t mean to be discourteous, but political
life is full of difficult decisions, and times are not as easy as they
used to be. What is more, we have our own wars to fight in the ocean,
for most of us feed by war. However, I’ll help you now, if you will
help us in the future.’

At this point Mrs. Whale burst in upon the conversation.

‘Oh, Albert,’ she cried, bumping him coyly, ‘you men are always
talking business. You’ll forgive my interrupting, won’t you, Mr.
Raphael? I’m sure Albert will scold me later. But I do want you to see
our son before you leave. Children of the Sea so seldom have a chance
to see the strange people who come from the Land. Especially live ones.
They tell me that we were land folk at one time. My husband says that
if this were known it would do him no end of harm politically.’

‘Now, now, little woman,’ interrupted her husband kindly, ‘run along.
We have serious business to attend to.’

The President turned and beckoned with his fluke to the sea horse.

‘Mr. Equerry,’ he commanded, ‘summon the Grand Council.’

At a word from the sea horse, the Grand Council, which was made up of
the House of Representatives as well as the Admiralty, gathered and
stationed itself in a semi-circle about the President, the big fish
nearest the ocean floor, the little fish above them like spectators in
a vast theater audience. Raphael saw a porpoise, a manatee, a sawfish,
a swordfish, a spearfish, a sailfish, a tarpon, a tuna, several kinds
of sharks, besides a dolphin, a turtle, and numerous representative sea
creatures he could not name.

When they were all in their places, the President introduced Raphael,
who repeated his adventures with the Giant Sorcerer and urged them to
aid him.

‘For,’ he said, ‘if my search for an entrance to the castle fails,
in the name of Gæa I shall tear apart the ocean floor and bury the
Sorcerer beneath the sea which otherwise he would surely dare to make
his own.’

‘Ah,’ echoed the multitude, who stared at him out of round unlidded
eyes. Raphael was about to continue his speech about the rescue of
Cassandra, which secretly he thought very fine indeed, when swarms of
little fish suddenly flashed through the assembly and darted into the
green weeds that skirted the base of the surrounding cliffs. Several of
the larger fish stirred hungrily, while the President looked annoyed.

‘Mr. Equerry,’ he demanded ponderously, ‘what is the meaning of this
interruption?’

‘I shall try to find out, Your Excellency,’ answered the sea horse
as he was tossed on the wave of the President’s double-chinned
displeasure. But even as he spoke more fish streamed through the
gateway to the great chamber, and swept the council amphitheater. Then
shadows appeared struggling at the entrance, and fine sand clouded
the water. No one said a word, but fear spread through the water in
mysterious waves.

Suddenly from the shadows between the cliffs, Raphael saw a strange
form appear, a creature with massive legs and arms, in whose round head
gleamed two goggle eyes. This thing advanced slowly and, bending over,
picked up a black cable from the ocean floor.

When the monster saw the gathering, it stopped and peered stupidly
about, balancing on one squat, steel-ribbed foot. Then with slow
strides it drifted back the way it had come.

‘Mr. Equerry,’ shouted the President in a shrill voice, ‘summon
the Admirals of the North and South Atlantic. Instruct Rear Admiral
Swordfish and Rear Admiral Sawfish to pursue the enemy and drive him
from the sea. In the meantime, the meeting is adjourned.’ He turned
nervously to Raphael. ‘I need a good blow of fresh air. I feel as
though I had been down at least five hours.’

He lifted his immense head toward the surface, and without another word
rose like a black cloud.


[Illustration]




CHAPTER VI

OFF TO WAR


Raphael followed the President as quickly as he could to the top of the
ocean. The afternoon sun was descending when he lifted his head above
water. Far away to the west he thought he could see the castle of the
Sorcerer, but it was difficult to be sure with the sun shining in his
eyes. He swam slowly toward the President, who was spouting feathery
plumes of vapor as he circled about.

‘Goodness, that creature gave me a start,’ said the President when
Raphael paddled up. And he blew a jet of vapor over the boy.

‘My nerves are not what they used to be,’ he confided. ‘It comes from
being hunted. Anything that looks like a man makes me jump, with
exceptions, of course. What did you make of it?’

‘It was a diver, I think,’ answered Raphael importantly. ‘A diver looks
very terrible,’ he added, to save the President’s feelings. ‘I’ve
often seen them in the movies at home when Aunt Mary let us go.’

‘Well, well,’ sighed the President, ‘if it’s only a diver. I thought
that....’

Just then Mrs. Whale appeared blowing nervously, followed by an ugly,
freckled, snub-nosed little whale some twenty feet in length.

‘Oh, Albert,’ she wailed, ‘what was it? Do you think there is any
danger? I can’t bear the suspense. I don’t care for myself, but Junior
will be frightened out of yards of growth.’

‘It was nothing, dear. Only a diver,’ replied her husband. ‘I don’t
believe there is any danger.’

At this Junior playfully butted his mother.

‘Junior, don’t! Do you want to hurt your mother, who would give every
fluke in her body for you?’

Then she saw Raphael. ‘Why, Mr. Raphael! How nice to see you up here!
Junior’s such a bad boy,’ she apologized proudly. ‘He’s getting his
strainers. Don’t you think he looks like the President? Stop it,
Junior! Do you want me to slap you? There, shake a fluke with Mr.
Raphael. Mr. Raphael comes from the Land, where they say we once
lived. What is the world coming to!’

Junior said nothing, but bumped his mother again as if by accident.

‘Now, Junior, do stop!’ she exclaimed almost tearfully. ‘Where are your
manners? Children are so difficult! I always try to reason with my
little ones, but sometimes it seems as though Junior just won’t listen.
My husband always laughs at me, but he spoils Junior just as badly as I
do. What do you think, Mr. Raphael?’

Raphael did not have time to say what he thought, for just then a small
voice fluted, ‘Mr. President, the Navy has formed in review.’ It was
the sea horse.

‘I have enjoyed my blow,’ said the President more calmly. ‘And now I
must leave you two to chat.’

‘Your Excellency,’ begged Raphael, ‘I want to know what happens. May I
go down with you?’

‘Why, certainly, Mr. Raphael. I should be delighted. Good-bye, dear,’
called the President to his wife; ‘don’t go too far away.’ Then he
turned to Raphael. ‘If you will catch hold of my fluke, we’ll be down
in a moment.’

Raphael did as he was told. The whale rounded his back, lifted his tail
out of water, and sounded with a splash.

Down they shot into the twilight world of the ocean. Raphael did not
dare to breathe, and for a long time did not even open his eyes.

At last they came to rest by the gateway of the amphitheater fifty
yards or so off bottom. Immediately a host of small fish swam up beside
them, pushing and struggling for the best view of the parade. Gray
police sharks drifted slowly up and down the line.

At a signal from the President, a huge sawfish approached and saluted
with a sweep of his tail. He had small up-staring eyes and moved his
saw sideways like a scythe.

‘All present, Mr. President,’ he intoned.

The right whale returned the salute and ordered, ‘Carry on.’

The sawfish saluted again and withdrew. The light was growing dimmer.
Shadows clung to the rock floor, and Raphael had difficulty in seeing
the black cliffs across the arena.

The review began in silence. Two Admirals, a swordfish and a sawfish,
followed by four Rear Admirals, passed slowly before the President.
Behind them swam, rank on rank, the Navy of the Atlantic led by a
brilliant band of drum and trumpet fish. Eight deep they drifted past
the reviewing stand in massed companies of a hundred--swordfish,
sawfish, spearfish, porpoises, leopard sharks, devilfish, sting rays,
and even a company of octopi which sculled along in the rear.

Behind them followed a second division composed of smaller fish led by
a sergeant major and queen trigger fish with a host of flying-fish for
scouts.

When the Navy had swum majestically out of the gateway, the crowd
broke up into noisy little groups of non-combatants. Raphael saw a
gathering of crabs arguing among themselves, while a large blue-green
lobster ambled over to join the fight. A starfish, unmindful of the
excitement, slept like a red rubber sponge on a coral ledge.

The ocean silence grew more oppressive as the light failed. Raphael was
watching a hermit crab scuttle round hunting for an empty shell to hide
in, when the sea horse swam up.

‘That creature killed both of the octopi guards,’ he said. ‘There must
have been a terrible fight. What do you suppose he was doing here?’

‘He was probably one of the Sorcerer’s spies,’ answered Raphael.

‘Do you really think so?’

‘Yes.’

‘I wonder how much he discovered?’ mused the Equerry. ‘I couldn’t find
out from the other fish. Some said one thing and some another.’

Just then the President swam up. He loomed dark and indistinct,
stirring up the phosphorus in the water which shone about him like
moonlight around the edges of a black cloud.

‘If you will spend the night with us, while the Navy drives that
monster from the Sea, I will show you many wonderful things,’ he urged
Raphael. ‘I know deep valleys in which all sorts of curious fish live,
fish with no eyes, fish with windows in their stomachs, fish who light
up the pits of the Sea with their own lanterns, besides numerous other
serpents and sea beasts.’

For a moment Raphael was tempted to stay and see these wonders. Then he
thought of Cassandra and gave up the idea. He was turning to bid the
President good-bye, when a small needlefish darted up.

‘Mr. President,’ whistled the needlefish, ‘Admiral Sawfish has sent me
with dispatches informing you that the enemy who invaded the Council
Chamber has entirely disappeared.’ And he handed Mr. Right Whale a
bundle of tightly rolled seaweed.

Raphael was worried.

‘Mr. President,’ he implored, ‘will you help me? The Sorcerer may have
been warned already of our plans to get into the castle.’

‘I shall help you as I promised,’ answered the whale, ‘but I don’t know
whether there is any entrance to the castle under the sea. If you will
wait, I will have my scouts look for one.’

‘If you would lend me a guide, I could scout for myself,’ urged Raphael.

‘Very well,’ said the President. ‘I must apologize for not providing
you with an escort to the island, but the Navy has gone. I am sure you
understand my position. My Equerry, however, will guide you.’

Raphael bade the President farewell and sent his respects to the First
Lady of the Ocean and her son.

‘Good-bye,’ called His Excellency. ‘Good luck. Farewell. Farewell.’

As he spoke the President drifted off, his voice grew fainter and
fainter, the darkness deepened, and Raphael saw him no more.




CHAPTER VII

EAGLES! EAGLES!


After bidding the President farewell, Raphael, guided by the sea horse,
returned toward the highlands which jutted up to form the island of the
Sorcerer. It was very dark. Phosphorus glowed about them in the ocean
so that they moved like comets through the night.

They had been traveling for some time when a host of small mackerel
darted by.

‘What’s the matter?’ asked the sea horse of one who paused a moment in
his flight to look at them.

‘A huge silver whale chased us, a whale larger than any we had ever
seen. It came out of those cliffs.’ And the mackerel turned and pointed
with his tail.

‘Come on,’ said Raphael. ‘I don’t like this.’

Together the sea horse and the boy rushed westward. After a time they
came to the cliffs themselves rising sheer and black.

Here they stumbled over a wire cable which ran along the ocean floor,
and stopped for a moment out of breath.

‘I’m afraid the Sorcerer may have gone,’ panted Raphael to his
companion.

The sea horse did not answer him, but stared intently into the gloom.
At first Raphael could see nothing, but at last he made out the outline
of a black doorway which gaped open in the cliff.

‘The door! The door!’ shouted Raphael.

He swam closer and felt one of the edges with his hand. It was made out
of metal. Again he tripped over the cable which led into the depths of
the chasm.

Raphael decided to follow it, and had started forward when the sea
horse warned him.

‘Be careful. That water is poisonous and foul.’

Raphael hesitated. A raw stagnant odor hung about the mouth of the
doorway which sickened him.

‘I shouldn’t go in there if I were you,’ warned the sea horse.

‘But,’ objected Raphael, ‘I must find Cassandra.’

The sea horse quivered. ‘Good-bye, then. I shall have to leave you
here. I hope you won’t think me a coward, but I couldn’t live a minute
in that water. Good luck.’

‘So long!’ said Raphael. He had become very fond of the sea horse. ‘See
you later, and thanks ever so much for showing me about.’

‘See you later,’ echoed the sea horse sadly, and turned away.

I shall never see him again, thought Raphael, and shut his eyes as he
stepped within the door.

It was cold and dead black inside. Raphael paddled blindly upward
feeling choked and uncomfortable.

Suddenly without warning his head popped above the surface, and he
could look around. He was in an immense cave hewn out of the solid
rock. At one end of it a cluster of brilliant yellow lights was
reflected in the oily black water that licked at the foot of a great
pier carved out of the rock wall.

[Illustration: ‘I SHOULDN’T GO IN THERE IF I WERE YOU,’ WARNED THE SEA
HORSE]

Raphael swam rapidly to a flight of landing stairs which ran down into
the water, and hauled himself out. Shivering he turned toward a few
concrete steps which led from the pier up to the door in the rock wall.
The black cable he had determined to follow also rose out of the water
and disappeared through this door.

This is the cable that the diver carried from the Council Chamber,
thought Raphael with sudden inspiration.

Not knowing exactly what to do, the boy mounted the steps and hurried
along a smooth concrete passageway which led directly into the castle
itself.

Forgetting the might and cunning of the enemy in his impatience, he
ran, his feet pattering along the corridor like rain upon a shingle
roof. Ahead of him lights blazed, but no one stopped him, no one
appeared. He climbed a long flight of marble stairs, and so came
through a door of brass into the great central hall of the castle. It
was a huge semi-circular room like a cathedral apse, lined with winking
elevator shafts that rose toward the distant ceiling in blazing piers
of metal.

Raphael hesitated for a moment and then followed the cable through an
open door. The room into which he came was lined with rich imitation
oak paneling, and contained a large mahogany-stained table. The cable
ended here. In the center of this table rested a steel box japanned in
black enamel. Halfway under the box lay a letter, thin and white, on
the outside of which was printed in large letters _RAPHAEL_, and below
this in writing, ‘_In the event of his discovering this dictaphone_.’

Raphael hastily tore open the letter, and read as follows:

                                                    CASTLE OF THE SEA

  MY DEAR RAPHAEL:

  Through my dictaphone I have discovered your plot to destroy me and
  my castle. As I quite realize your ability to carry out your plans
  so conveniently outlined, I have made mine in advance. Cassandra
  and I leave in a moment by submarine for a safer retreat from your
  unwished-for attentions.

  I trust that this letter will relieve you of further search, my only
  regret being that our destination must be kept a secret from you.
  Give my respects to all your old-fashioned friends above and below.

                                     I remain
                                             Your humble
                                                 And devoted servant
                                                              MECHANUS

  P.S. Cassandra sends her love.

Raphael stared at the letter a moment. Then he ran to the door, and
back into the great hallway. Here he stopped and looked desperately
about. It was almost impossible to go back. He thought of the roof, the
roof and the eagles.

All the elevator doors stood open. Raphael stepped into the nearest one
and grasped the starting lever. Up, up he shot with dizzy speed. He
wondered, as they passed floor after floor, how tall the castle was.
Where should he stop? Perhaps the elevator would shatter itself against
the roof and drop him down the long shaft.

The car jarred and came to a sudden stop. Raphael jerked back the
elevator door and stepped into a long corridor. Peering up between the
landing and the cage, he saw the roof itself just above him. He was on
the top floor.

The boy ran along the corridor, and so came to a room where he
discovered a huge aeroplane lying black and shining in its hangar.
Raphael did not even stop to look at the machine, but hurried toward
the great door which filled one end of the room. It was made of steel,
thick and impassive. This was the entrance he had noticed from the
outside. He pushed at it frantically, and beat his hands on the great
locks. He might as well have tried to overthrow the castle itself.

Raphael had nearly given up in despair when he noticed a small lever on
the wall. He reached over and pulled it down. With a click and whir the
door swung smoothly back, and the boy stepped out onto the roof.

‘Eagles! Eagles!’ he shouted.

In a moment Chief of All the Eagles in the Sky wheeled into sight.

‘Well, my boy,’ he said shortly, ‘you’ve been gone a long time.’

‘The Sorcerer,’ choked Raphael handing him the crumpled letter, ‘has
escaped by submarine with Cassie.’

‘I thought so,’ remarked Empyrean without surprise. ‘My lieutenants
reported earlier in the evening that they had seen a large fish swim
from underneath the castle. It is easy to see such things from the air.’

‘Then Cassie is lost for good?’

‘Nonsense,’ said the eagle. ‘The war has only begun. I commanded my
lieutenants to follow the submarine, and bring us news. Come, we must
join them.’

Raphael scrambled upon Empyrean’s back, and they winged their way into
the night. Behind them the empty castle of the Sorcerer rose in the
moonlight like a silver monument out of the black sea.




CHAPTER VIII

ON TO MECHANA


Raphael settled back between the eagle’s wings. He felt tired and very
hungry.

‘Here,’ shouted the eagle, ‘lean down.’

Raphael leaned down, and Empyrean handed him something cold and slimy.

‘Thought you might be hungry,’ screamed the bird.

Raphael held the thing up in the moonlight. It was a fish.

I am an eagle. I must do as the eagles do, reasoned the boy. At least
this will keep me from starving.

But the limp fish in his hand did not bring him any desire to eat.

I wonder, he thought, whether this was one of my friends under the
ocean. Meanwhile he held the fish almost at arm’s length.

In a few moments, however, hunger overcame distaste, and he began to
eat. Raw fish had its advantages. It was filling. Cats like raw fish.

When he had finished, Raphael wiped his hands carefully upon his
feather suit and looked about, lulled by the rise and fall of the great
wings. The moon, pale and remote, hung like a silver plate in the sky.

The boy wondered how the eagle knew where he was going. He remembered
dimly that mariners guide their ships over the sea at night by the aid
of stars. A meteor fell in a slow blaze of sparks across the sky. Once
he had been on a boat at night....

When Raphael woke, it was early morning. In the east the sun was
rising, to the west, land rimmed the horizon. Near at hand flew another
eagle.

‘Have they found the Sorcerer?’ called Raphael, wide awake.

Empyrean nodded.

‘Where?’

‘Ahead of us.’

Other eagles joined them, sweeping down out of the sky in slow
circles. Raphael could see the white line of surf breaking over the
bleak shore back of which rose low hills covered with dark firs.

They flew on rapidly and came in a few moments to the head of a little
bay where a sluggish river emptied into the sea. At the mouth of the
river was a stone landing from which led a straight white road.

‘Look! Look!’ yelled Raphael.

Alongside the jetty lay a huge silver submarine with a gangplank
leading from the conning tower to the jetty. Deserted, it slept like an
ocean monster, gently rubbing against the pier head, while little waves
creamed against its shimmering sides. There was no movement, no sign of
life anywhere. Only the sun glistening on silver steel decks.

Without lighting they flew inland, following the river and the road
which led away from the coast. After a time mountains appeared on the
horizon, the river disappeared in low hills, and only the slender road
wound westward.

They rose slowly higher and higher as the mountains pushed up into the
sky. It was like flying, Raphael thought, over a rumpled comforter on a
gigantic bed. Clouds gathered about them, masses of cold, moist vapor
shutting out the earth below, smothering the mountains in their soft
folds, shutting them off into another world with the sun and the blue
sky.

At signal from Empyrean, all the eagles dove through the clouds and,
swooping in a great circle, lit on top of a mountain which overhung
a broad valley that stretched westward as far as Raphael could see.
Through the center of this valley flowed a broad river.

All the eagles gathered about Empyrean.

‘Does the Sorcerer live down there?’ asked Raphael, pointing.

The eagle nodded: ‘To the west, there is a great city called Mechana.’

The boy said nothing for a moment. He could make out distant lakes
like pools of melted lead. Almost at his feet the road they had been
following wormed through the mountain range and disappeared into the
forest. It was cold on the mountain. In spite of his feather suit,
Raphael shivered.

‘Does that road lead to Mechana?’ he asked.

‘Yes,’ answered the bird.

Raphael felt a sudden desire to run, to feel the earth under his feet,
to smell the clean forest smell. Flying was fun, but....

‘Empyrean, would it be all right if I ran along the road a little way
to get warm?’ begged the boy. ‘I’m frozen.’

The eagle nodded. ‘Follow the road,’ he ordered curtly, ‘and when you
reach the outskirts of the city, wait for me. I shall join you there.’

Raphael scrambled eagerly down the mountain to the road. Then, because
the sun was warm and the air crisp, he called upon the powers of the
antelope, and leapt forward in easy, tireless strides.

The road led from the cedar-dotted uplands into a valley of spruce.
Logs covered with green moss and moulding yellow leaves lay tangled
in the undergrowth. In the trees chickadees fluted and chirped, and a
hen partridge scuttled across the road with her tiny yellow brood.
Raphael politely said ‘Good-morning,’ but they only fluttered and
stared at him out of brown, curious eyes.

[Illustration: ‘DOES THAT ROAD LEAD TO MECHANA?’]

Raphael ran on. Half an hour later, as he turned a sharp corner in
the road, he nearly stumbled over a large black bear and her cub. The
bear rose on her hind legs, her ears laid flat and the lips of her tan
muzzle drawn back showing large white teeth.

Raphael stopped.

‘Good-morning,’ he said as pleasantly as he could, though his voice
shook.

The bear dropped back to the road with a soft thud.

‘Who are you?’ she grunted.

‘I am Raphael,’ he replied, ‘Commander of the Elements under Gæa, the
Earth Mother.’

By this time the cub had ambled forward to inspect this strange
creature dressed in black feathers who smelt so queerly.

‘You are welcome then,’ growled the bear surlily, and she sat back on
her furry rump showing the leather soles of her hind feet. ‘It will be
a hot day.’

Raphael seated himself on a dry log at the side of the road.

‘It is going to be a hot day,’ he repeated. ‘How far is it to Mechana,
the city of the Sorcerer?’

‘What Sorcerer?’

Then he told the bear about Mechanus, and how he had stolen his sister
Cassandra. Meanwhile the cub snuffled about Raphael’s feet until,
becoming bored, he ambled off to root in a rotten tree for grubs.

When Raphael stopped talking, the she bear said: ‘I have heard of
this Sorcerer. It is said that he is like a man, and that there is a
city a long way to the west. But life is hard in the woods. I find it
difficult enough to feed my children, and so I do not bother about what
does not concern me.’

‘But that’s just it,’ argued Raphael. ‘It does concern you. To-day you
have a forest to live in and pools to drink from. But to-morrow the
Sorcerer may cut down this forest, the pools will dry, the berries
will disappear; you will find nothing to feed on, and then how will
your children live?’

[Illustration: RAPHAEL SEATED HIMSELF ON A DRY LOG]

The bear looked at him out of cunning little eyes. ‘When that time
comes, I shall move elsewhere to other forests.’ And she wrinkled her
long nose in a yawn.

‘I am sorry for your sister,’ she added. ‘I know how I should feel if
a cub of mine were stolen. But, after all, life in the forest is one
danger following another. We must eat. We must find food, and that
is difficult enough. Meanwhile the Earth Mother who has always cared
for us will look after her people. There is no use in worrying about
to-morrow. For many years men have hunted us, and yet we live.’

Raphael muttered, ‘The Sorcerer will be more terrible than man.’

The bear stirred restlessly. ‘Well, perhaps as you say, some day we may
go. It is quite true that life is growing harder for us. But then we do
not expect to live forever.’

Here the little cub broke in with a whimper, ‘Mamma, I’m hungry. You
promised me a log with fat slugs in it.’

‘I’m sorry I can’t help you,’ the bear said to Raphael, ‘but a mother’s
life is a hard one. Yes, Lawrence, I’ll be right with you.’

Raphael watched them out of sight, and then ran on down the road.
Down through the valley it wound until it reached the river, where it
followed the river-bank. Having been granted the powers of an antelope,
Raphael stopped every now and then to nibble at the green buds and
tender shoots of late spring. In this way the day passed.

Toward evening he came suddenly upon a clearing hewn out of the forest.
In the evening light the white-topped stumps of freshly cut trees
looked like the gravestones of a bleak cemetery. Raphael moved forward
very slowly. The road left the river and climbed a steep hill, and, as
the boy reached the top, he saw the city itself below him.

‘There you are,’ said a familiar voice as a shadow passed over his
head, and Empyrean lit on the ground beside him. ‘I have been
following you for the last hour. What do you think of it?’

Raphael stood and said nothing.


[Illustration]




CHAPTER IX

THE COUNCIL OF THE ANIMALS


The hill on which they stood dropped sharply away into a plain
surrounded by high hills. To the south the river ran under pine
bluffs. But what amazed Raphael was the strange city that lay before
him. A thousand white skyscrapers towered up from the plain in square
masses of marble and concrete, a city of giant cubes one rising above
the other. Overhead three aeroplanes droned like black bees sharply
outlined against the evening sky.

As the twilight deepened, lights appeared in the windows of the massive
buildings. Raphael could hear the roar of swiftly moving machinery like
the murmur of a far-off waterfall. Somewhere in a huge skyscraper among
those canyons of concrete, Cassandra and the Sorcerer were hidden.

‘How shall I ever find her in that great city?’ thought Raphael, awed.

‘What shall we do?’ he asked Empyrean.

‘First of all we must prevent the Sorcerer from escaping us,’ answered
the eagle.

‘But how can we?’

‘Set a guard about the city.’

‘If we called a council of the animals, they would help us,’ suggested
Raphael.

The eagle gave the order to his lieutenants, and then turned to Raphael.

‘My boy, to-morrow we shall test the power of this Sorcerer. In the
meantime you had better sleep. The animals should arrive at dawn.
Good-night.’ And Empyrean flew up into the branches of a tall dead tree.

Raphael hunted for a dry spot to sleep. When he had found an
overhanging rock with pine needles at the base, he curled up and lay
down.

Overhead the stars were very bright. Raphael was too excited to sleep
immediately. Instead he lay and thought about Cassandra. Where was
she? What was she doing? Was the Sorcerer kind to her? What was the
Sorcerer? Was he so very dangerous that Gæa should be forced to give
him power over all the elements? Who was Gæa? All the animals knew her
and yet none save Empyrean had ever talked of her. She was a woman. The
Mother of all living things. Perhaps she was like Aunt Mary, only more
beautiful.

Thinking these things, he drifted into a troubled sleep. He dreamt that
he had been running very fast and that suddenly he came to a little
house of logs in the woods. Over the door hung an old board on which
was burnt in rough letters, _The House of Life_. He walked right in
without knocking and looked around. It was a bigger house than he had
thought. In one corner stood a woman washing. She was large. Her arms
were red, and her hair was quite gray. She wore a faded gray blouse and
skirt. ‘Hello,’ said Raphael, ‘I--I didn’t know you were here.’ The
woman turned and smiled. She had a pleasant face like the woman who
washed clothes for Aunt Mary and gave him cookies from the cooky jar.
‘Who are you?’ asked Raphael in the dream. ‘I am Gæa,’ said the woman
and smiled again. Raphael liked her smile and her quiet gray eyes.
‘You will save Cassie, won’t you?’ he asked anxiously. Then Raphael
heard a scratching noise, and Gæa went to the door and opened it. In
waddled two wolf cubs. They were very young and soft. Gæa picked them
up and dipped them carefully in her washtub. Raphael started. The
water in the tub was bright red. It was the color of blood. Gæa dried
the cubs carefully and then set them down. In a moment there was more
scratching at the door, and two ungainly fawns trotted in. In this
way cubs and fawns and numberless wild babies arrived and were dipped
until the house was filled with them. Gæa gently continued her work of
baptism in spite of the frightened protests of the young animals. At
last there was no place to stand at all. Raphael was suddenly afraid,
afraid of the house, afraid of the animals which filled it. ‘Gæa, Gæa,’
he called desperately and scrambled toward her. ‘Yes, dearie,’ she
answered reassuringly and opened her arms. He was just able to reach
their shelter and bury his head in her blouse when he woke, his face
pressed into the leaves on which he lay. It was gray in the forest
about him. It was morning.

Raphael rose and shook himself. He noticed quite suddenly that the
woods about him were filled with moving things. He could hear the
rustle of leaves and the occasional snap of a twig. Mice scurried
through the underbrush. A rabbit hopped in sight and looked curiously
about. A deer peered at him from a thicket. He walked thoughtfully to
the top of the hill which overlooked the city and sat down upon a rock.
Here Empyrean joined him.

The larger beasts arrived slowly--the moose, the elk, the mountain
lion and the grizzly bear, the wolves and coyotes. Raphael, as he saw
the animals crowding about him, some frightened and impatient, others
bold and curious, realized that much more than Cassandra’s liberty
was wrapped in the defeat of the Sorcerer. The Earth people had come
to help him at the bidding of Gæa, their mother. With the Sorcerer
destroyed they would be saved from extermination, perhaps forever.

When the meeting had been called together by Empyrean, Raphael spoke:

‘Brothers,’ he said and pointed down the valley, ‘your home is being
destroyed by the same Sorcerer who has stolen my sister. You know what
his terrible engines have done to your forests and your rivers and your
children. While he lives, you cannot hope to inherit the Earth, for his
people multiply and spread all over the world. The time has come for us
to attack him, attack to save the places we live in and in which our
ancestors lived.’

The animals made assent each in his own tongue and pressed closer, the
deer timid and trembling, the moose shoulder to shoulder with the elk,
the great bears and the mountain lions, the wolves and the coyotes,
brothers in one common purpose.

Then Raphael called for scouts to discover if possible where the
Sorcerer lived and where Cassandra was. All the animals volunteered to
go with one voice.

‘Let me go,’ said a mouse. ‘I’m small. No one would pay much attention
to a mouse.’

‘Of what use would a mouse be?’ hissed a snake scornfully.

The rest of the animals said nothing.

‘I think,’ said Raphael, after a pause, ‘that a mouse might be able to
find out more than any of the rest of us. He is small and his eyes are
sharp. Go quickly, Mouse, and return to us.’

The little mouse, quite excited over the honor done him, scurried off.
Meanwhile the animals lay in a circle about the clearing, the larger
ones crowding among the firs at the edge, the smaller ones finding
shelter in the grass and bushes. Raphael sat on the council rock and
looked out over the city.

In an hour or two the mouse returned, hurried and out of breath. The
animals, who were the first to hear him, rose and pressed about Raphael
to hear what was said.

‘Master,’ squeaked the mouse, ‘the way was long and I have hurried.
I went down through the fields to a desert of stone with high cliffs
on all sides. Great boxes on wheels and many silent walking things
passed me. And so I came away. Truly what could live in such a place?’

[Illustration: ‘A MOUSE MIGHT BE ABLE TO FIND OUT MORE THAN ANY OF THE
REST OF US’]

‘What sort of silent walking things?’ asked Raphael.

‘Creatures like yourself but bigger. They smelt of oil and frightened
me.’

‘What else did you discover?’

‘No more, Master. What is there to learn from such a waste of stone,
and creatures that do not talk?’

Raphael was bitterly disappointed at this lack of news, and again
called for volunteers. This time a crow cawed louder than the others:
‘Let me go, Master. I can fly over the city, and who would suspect a
black thief of a crow? Now a proud eagle or a hawk might be killed by
our enemy. And,’ he concluded, slyly looking at Empyrean, ‘what is more
cunning than a crow?’

So it was decided that he should go.

When the crow returned, he said that he had flown a great way, but that
he had little to report. ‘I saw,’ he said, ‘a great city below me with
streets many miles in length, and on each side of them huge buildings
that took up many acres of ground. In one place only I saw trees and
green growing things. By the river there is a tower surrounded by a
walled garden.’

‘Do you think Cassandra might be there?’ asked Raphael, excited.

‘Perhaps,’ agreed the crow.

‘There is nothing so cunning as a crow,’ said Empyrean sarcastically,
stretching the talons of his foot.

‘I wonder if we could reach the tower by the river,’ Raphael mused
aloud.

‘I’m afraid not, Mr. Raphael,’ spoke up a voice. The company parted
about the speaker and Raphael saw the sleek body of an otter with his
dark snake-like head. ‘I was down in the river among the trout,’ he
confessed, ‘and I know the river is dammed in many places so that one
cannot pass to and fro.’

‘Thank you,’ said Raphael. ‘In that case the river would be out of the
question.’

‘Yes,’ replied the otter. ‘I hunt and see strange things. I have
watched the river turn great wheels.’

‘It is those wheels,’ explained Raphael, ‘which make electricity for
lights and heaters and for running power motors.’

‘That may well be,’ said the otter. ‘As for me, I do not understand man
things. They are best left to men.’

‘I agree with you,’ squeaked the mouse in a flash of spirit. ‘I do not
like boxes that run on wheels.’

‘Nor,’ joined in the birds, ‘great insects that fly through the air.’

‘We have been caught in traps and poisoned,’ bayed the wolves.

‘We are shot at with bullets for our horns,’ belled the moose.

All the animals began to cry out in their languages.

‘Peace,’ said Raphael. ‘We must spy out the city of the Sorcerer if we
are to destroy him and bring back my sister.’

‘You had better go,’ counseled Empyrean. ‘These creatures are fools.
We shall wait here for you.’

‘I’ll go,’ agreed Raphael. ‘Perhaps that will be best. People of the
Woods, will you circle the city of the Sorcerer so that he may not slip
away from us? I shall spy on him myself.’

‘We will,’ came back the answer. ‘We are of one mind in this.’

‘I may be gone a week. Will you guard faithfully?’

‘If we do this, Mr. Raphael,’ said a hare timidly, ‘who will save us
from the wolves and the foxes?’

‘You need not worry,’ said Raphael confidently. ‘We are here for one
purpose, the freedom of all from the Sorcerer and his creatures, and so
have declared a universal truce.’

‘A truce! A truce!’ shouted the animals. ‘Death to the Sorcerer.
Freedom forever.’

The hare looked nervous, but said nothing. Then Raphael called together
the leaders of the wolves, the eagles, the bears, the wild cats, the
moose, the elk, and all the others, and urged them to keep the peace
for seven days. He sent this word by the otter to the trout and salmon
in the river. Then he once more cautioned the animals to keep faith,
saying that on them rested the success of the expedition. After that
Raphael made his way to the city.


[Illustration]




CHAPTER X

THE CAPTURE OF RAPHAEL


Raphael walked down the hill toward the city of the Sorcerer, and came
shortly to a macadam road which he followed cautiously, ready to hide
if anything should pass. He had not gone far when a truck clattered
by with two strange creatures on the driving seat. They were not men,
though curiously like them in figure.

They were tall, and were dressed in dark gray jumpers. Their hands
were covered with what appeared to be black gloves, and their feet
were cased in metal shoes. But the heads of these creatures astonished
Raphael most: the faces were gray with two glassy eyes set under round
projecting foreheads, the noses were thick and short, the chins dropped
away rapidly below the mouth. They appeared to have no ears, but each
wore a matting of rope hair. These evidently were the servants of the
Sorcerer.

Raphael tried to hide as the truck lumbered by, but the creatures
drove past without looking at him. This encouraged the boy and he
walked more boldly. Gæa would look after him.

On each side of the highway rose large billboards shutting out the view
of the plain. _Welcome to Mechana_, stood out in large letters beside
the portrait of a mechanical man, and there were others: _Mechanicos
Drink Mozzo Oil, the Health Fluid. Keeps Out Rust, the Enemy of Long
Life._ While a few bore the more terrifying legend, _Does the Repair
Shop Frighten You? Use U-Kant-Beat-It on the Joints._ Below this the
following letter was painted in red, ‘_I have used U-Kant-Beat-It for
ten years and can still kiss my big toe._’ It was signed _Mechanus, the
Giant Sorcerer_.

Why, thought Raphael, this is just like Uniontown.

He was entering the city now where there were sidewalks. Tall buildings
rose on each side casting their shadows over the thoroughfare which
teemed with automobiles and heavy trucks. Mechanical men passed him in
a steady stream. If they only knew that I had come to destroy them,
they might look at me, mused the boy.

He began to grow confused. Streets ran every which-way. The tall
skyscrapers shut out the afternoon sun. It must be late, thought
Raphael. I wonder where I am? He could ask no one. Probably no one
would understand him.

Raphael was worried and walked faster. Turning a corner suddenly, he
nearly bumped into four mechanical men who were blocking the sidewalk.
One of them was much larger than the others. Raphael gasped, went pale,
and half turned to run. Before him stood the creature that had stolen
Cassandra--the Giant Sorcerer.

‘Hello, there,’ called the Sorcerer. ‘Don’t run. It won’t do any good.
I’ve been waiting for you the last ten minutes. Come here, I won’t hurt
you.’

To gain time Raphael asked rather weakly, ‘Are you the Giant Sorcerer?’

‘Yes,’ said the Sorcerer easily. ‘Mechanus is my name. These are my
mechanicos.’ And he motioned to the other three.

‘Where,’ faltered Raphael, ‘is Cassie?’ He passed his tongue over his
dry lips.

‘So you want to see Cassandra, eh?’ remarked the Sorcerer. ‘She is safe
enough. You may go,’ he said, turning to his three mechanicos. ‘I don’t
think Raphael will be so foolish as to try to escape.’

Cassandra is safe, thought Raphael. He could fly. He was about to run
and jump as high as he could in the air when he heard the thrum of a
motor overhead. Above him floated a cigar-shaped balloon around which
an aeroplane flew in graceful circles. There would be no use in trying
to escape by flight.

Well, thought Raphael, I shall go home with him and find out where
Cassandra is hidden. The Sorcerer evidently did not mean to harm him.
Raphael began to take heart.

‘Promise me that you won’t try to escape,’ said the Sorcerer. ‘I don’t
want to tie you.’

‘I promise I won’t try to escape now,’ answered Raphael.

The Sorcerer beckoned to a white limousine driven by a mechanico which
stood at the curb.

‘The Tower,’ said Mechanus when he and Raphael, aided by the footman,
had climbed in.

With a shriek of the horn, the white car made off like a wild thing.
It rocked over the city streets, skimming through the traffic. As they
flew along, lines of great trucks stopped for them, mechanicos dove out
of their path, while mechanical police waved them on.

Raphael sat silent, terrified at the frightful speed.

‘Well, my boy,’ said the Sorcerer genially, ‘how do you like it?’

‘I hate it,’ said Raphael bitterly.

‘This is civilization,’ was the Sorcerer’s only comment.

‘Wait until I show you the town,’ he went on after a pause. ‘It is a
beautiful sight. Avenues any city might be proud of, no waste, no silly
parks cluttering up the place. I detest inefficiency.’

‘Why do you drive so fast?’ asked Raphael sullenly as they skidded
round a corner.

‘To save time, of course. Time is money. Money is success. That is why
we are successful.’

‘Then I don’t want to be successful,’ said Raphael.

‘Pshaw. Nerves. You suffer from nerves. Now my mechanicos have no
nerves. It is one of my great inventions.’

‘Why did you steal Cassandra?’ asked Raphael suddenly.

‘Why did I steal Cassandra? Because I wanted a daughter, a human child
to live with me.’

‘I don’t believe you,’ said Raphael rudely. ‘I don’t believe you ever
wanted a daughter.’

Soon after this they stopped in front of a high wall with a gate of
bronze. The Sorcerer got out and Raphael followed him. Spinning a dial
set in one of the bronze panels, the Sorcerer opened the door and
nodded to Raphael to enter.

‘I change the combination every day,’ he said dryly. ‘I shouldn’t
bother to learn it, if I were you.’

They passed through the gate into the brightest garden Raphael had ever
seen. Millions of flowers grew in great beds, laid out in squares. The
walks were broad and made of asphalt. In the distance the boy could
make out a little pond. Overshadowing this garden of red and yellow and
green, Raphael saw a huge round tower of gray brick.

‘This is where I live,’ said the Sorcerer. ‘Cassandra lives with me.’

‘Is Cassie here?’ asked Raphael eagerly.

‘Oh, Cassandra,’ called the Sorcerer.

At his summons a little girl dressed in white walked slowly from the
other side of a large bush in one corner of the garden.

‘Yes,’ she said listlessly. ‘What do you want?’

‘Cassandra, your brother Raphael is here.’

‘Cassie!’ shouted Raphael, running toward her.

The little girl raised her eyes slowly. ‘Hello, Raphael,’ she said
dully.

Raphael stopped as though he had been struck.

‘Cassie!’ was all he could say. ‘Cassie, what’s the matter?’

‘Nothing. Nothing at all.’

Raphael was puzzled. There was something wrong.

‘Well, children,’ said Mechanus, ‘it must be nearly supper-time. Show
Raphael to his room, Cassandra.’

Cassandra led the way through the stone-flagged hall of the tower to an
elevator. They stepped in, and Cassandra pushed a button. The elevator
rose swiftly.

‘Aren’t you well, Cassie?’ whispered Raphael. ‘You look sort of pale.’

‘Oh, I’m all right,’ said Cassandra. ‘Here’s our room.’

But Raphael wasn’t satisfied.

The elevator stopped with a jerk, and Cassandra opened the door.

It was a room full of light. Around the pale yellow walls ran a band of
pictures representing fire engines, and trucks, and steam shovels, and
automobiles.

Raphael went to the western window and looked out. The tower overlooked
the garden and beyond that Raphael could see the river winding under
distant pine bluffs. He was a captive.

Several knocks shook at the door, and a mechanico entered bearing a
suit of clothes.

‘The Master wishes you to change, Mr. Raphael,’ said the mechanico.

‘I won’t,’ said Raphael. ‘I prefer my feather suit.’

‘The Master said he wanted no magic nonsense. You must change, Mr.
Raphael.’

So the Sorcerer would take away his suit. Would the power of Gæa go
with it? Raphael was afraid of this.

‘I won’t,’ he repeated stubbornly.

‘Sorry, Sir,’ replied the mechanico politely. And then before Raphael
could scream or cry out, he was seized and his feather suit stripped
from him. He burst into angry tears.

‘Let my brother alone,’ spoke up Cassandra sharply and flew at the
mechanico. But he was gone, and the door shut behind him. Raphael,
angry though he was, noticed that his sister’s eyes were brighter and
that her cheeks were touched with pink.

The boy, trembling with rage, put on the clothes the Sorcerer had given
him.

Just then a bell rang.

‘What is that?’ he asked.

‘Supper,’ said Cassandra.

‘I won’t go. I don’t want anything to eat,’ stormed the boy.

‘Come on, Raff, dear,’ urged Cassandra. ‘To please me.’

‘Why should I please you? You weren’t glad to see me a bit,’ said
Raphael bitterly.

‘Oh, Raff,’ wailed Cassandra, flinging her arms round Raphael’s neck.
‘I’m so sorry. I was glad to see you. But--but I feel as if I had just
waked up.’

Ten minutes later they went down to the dining-room. Two places were
set, one on either side of the table.

‘Children,’ said Mechanus, ‘you are ten minutes late.’

The children said nothing, but sat down.

‘I’ve had this porridge cooked especially for you,’ said the Sorcerer
proudly. ‘We mechanicos use only one type of fuel.’

The Sorcerer sat down between them.

While Raphael and Cassandra ate their supper out of silver porridge
bowls, the Sorcerer was brought a large golden tankard. Throwing back
his head he poured at least a gallon of brown fluid down his throat.

‘What is that?’ asked Raphael, forgetting his anger in his curiosity.

‘That, my boy,’ said the Sorcerer, ‘is mineral oil. It is all we
mechanicos need in the way of food and quite easy to take.’


[Illustration]




CHAPTER XI

THE GARDEN OF THE SORCERER


That night Raphael dropped into a dreamless sleep. When he woke in the
morning, he thought he was in Uniontown at home. There was Cassandra’s
bed, and Cassandra’s black head upon the pillow. But the nursery walls
were different. They were yellow. Then he remembered everything. He
lay half asleep looking across the room at the pictures in silhouette.
Cassandra had told him the whole story of her capture. She had waked
in the Sorcerer’s aeroplane and had been taken to a castle with no
windows. From this she had been carried to a strange boat which also
had no windows. Then they had driven over a long road in a racing
automobile to the tower in the city.

Cassandra was very vague about the details. She had been sleepy. She
had only really waked when he, Raphael, had come. Well, there she was,
Cassandra, his sister.

‘Cassie,’ he called softly to see if she were awake.

‘Yes,’ said Cassandra, opening her eyes.

‘Let’s get up. What time is it?’

‘I don’t know.’

Raphael got out of bed. Running over he pulled the bedclothes off
Cassandra with a jerk, shouting, ‘Ya, ya. Sleepy head. Going to stay
all day in bed.’ Cassandra hit at him with a pillow. Then Raphael
remembered the Sorcerer. As the Emissary of Gæa he should behave with
more dignity. He walked over to the bathroom and slipped on his new
clothes.

When Cassandra and he went down to breakfast, they found the Sorcerer
seated in a chair reading a magazine.

‘Well,’ said he, ‘how did you sleep?’

‘Fine,’ said Raphael. ‘Did you sleep well?’

‘My dear boy,’ answered the Sorcerer, ‘I don’t ever sleep. What use is
sleep? It is a waste of valuable time.’

Raphael glanced at the magazine that the Sorcerer had been reading.
It was lying open on the table. As far as Raphael could see it was
made up of advertisements. _Use Flip Flop Arches for Flat Feet. A
Masterpiece of Mechanical Machinery. Is Your Personality Red Hot? The
Mechanico Wearing Our Asbestos Underwear Is Correctly Garbed For All
Occasions._ And there was a picture of a mechanico standing on his
head, underneath which Raphael read, _Do you know better? Make your
manners mechanical._

‘Aren’t there any stories in the magazine?’ Raphael asked.

‘Oh dear no,’ answered Mechanus. ‘This is the Mechanico Journal
Post. It is the last word in magazine-making. We have left out all
unnecessary matter.’ And he showed Raphael the cover on which was
printed the picture of a mechanico with his mouth open. This was done
handsomely in several colors.

After breakfast Raphael and Cassandra went out into the garden to play.
It was a wonderful garden. There were all sorts of flowers growing in
it, flowers much bigger than Raphael had ever seen before. Brick-red
zinnias, crimson dahlias, blue corn flowers, columbine, roses, and
tall sunflowers. There were also many other flowers Raphael could not
name.

‘Why, I didn’t know all these flowers bloomed so early in the spring,’
he said to Cassandra.

‘I guess they don’t, Raff. Anyhow, these are fakes.’

Raphael bent over to pick one. It was true. They were not flowers at
all, but beautifully made imitations.

‘What shall we play?’ asked Raphael.

‘Let’s play trains.’

‘But we haven’t any.’

‘Mechanus said,’ answered Cassandra, ‘that all we had to do was to clap
our hands, and a mechanico would bring us anything we wanted.’

They both clapped their hands, and a mechanico appeared.

‘Please,’ said Cassandra, ‘we want to play trains.’

[Illustration: THE MECHANICO DISAPPEARED AND SUMMONED A LARGE GANG OF
OTHER MECHANICOS]

The mechanico disappeared and returned in a moment bringing a large box
which he carried on his head. When the box was opened, Raphael gave
a cry of delight. Inside it were real trains that ran by steam and
were fired by tiny chips of coal. They had electric lights in all the
carriages. There were also sections of track, and the mechanico brought
switches and drawbridges and stations and a roundhouse with a turntable.

They laid the track through the jungle of the false flowers, and played
happily together for an hour or two. Then Raphael got up and stretched.

‘I wish,’ he said, ‘I had a larger train with an engine that I could
run myself.’

He clapped his hands. ‘Is there a bigger engine about? An engine large
enough for me to ride in?’

The mechanico disappeared and summoned a large gang of other
mechanicos. They laid steel tracks about the garden, and down the
walks. ‘This is the life,’ said Raphael, delighted. ‘Come on, Cassie,
let’s run the big engine.’

They spent another two hours playing with the big engine the mechanicos
had brought them. They rode round and round the garden, throwing the
switches, backing for loads of stones they tossed into the dump cars,
and blowing the whistle.

‘Let’s never go back to Uniontown,’ said Raphael as he stopped the
train by the concrete pond. ‘Let’s stay here and play forever.’

‘Raff,’ broke in Cassandra, ‘it’s my turn. Let me drive.’

‘It’s not your turn,’ answered Raphael. ‘Besides, you don’t know how to
run an engine. You’d break it.’

‘Yes I do, too,’ argued Cassandra. ‘You’ve run the train for hours.’

‘Well, it’s mine, isn’t it? I asked for it.’

‘You wouldn’t have thought of it if I hadn’t told you what the Sorcerer
said.’ And Cassandra made a grab for the driving throttle.

‘Let go, Cassie, or I’ll push you off the train,’ said Raphael, angrily
seizing her hand.

Cassandra burst into tears. Raphael suddenly realized that they were
quarreling the first day they were together, fighting when they could
have anything they wanted. He was ashamed.

‘All right, Cassie,’ he said. ‘You can run the old engine.’

Cassandra brightened up. ‘Thank you, Raff,’ she said sweetly.

After lunch the Sorcerer took them to a room Cassie had never seen
before which held an enormous doll’s house. It was a wonderful house.
Each room had its small furnishings. In the bedrooms were bureaus
and beds and rugs and electric lights that turned on and off. In the
dining-room a miniature mechanico plied a vacuum cleaner, in the
kitchen a cook was cooking food on a little electric range, while in
the front parlor sat a mechanical man listening to a radio machine from
which issued strange infinitesimal squeaks and noises. ‘Just like the
radio at home,’ laughed Cassandra joyfully.

When they had grown tired of the doll’s house, they returned to the
garden and ordered two small racing automobiles. They drove these up
and down the asphalt paths, stopping every once in a while to change
the tires for the fun of it.

Toward the end of the afternoon Raphael suddenly thought, ‘I should
like an aeroplane.’ And he clapped his hands.

But this time he was denied. ‘The Master said you were not to have an
aeroplane,’ explained the mechanico. ‘He was afraid you might try to
escape.’

Escape! What nonsense! He was having far too good a time to escape.

‘All right,’ he said petulantly. ‘If I can’t, I suppose that’s all
there is to it.’ Raphael had forgotten Gæa and the animals and Aunt
Mary.

‘Cassie,’ he called, ‘I’ll race you round the garden.’

That evening after supper, Mechanus took them to a little theater in
the tower, and showed them moving pictures. Raphael and Cassandra were
very much excited when the lights were shut off and the title, _A Miss
Is As Good As A Mile; A Mechanical Comedy, by the Mechanico Motion
Picture Studio_, flickered on the screen. Aunt Mary seldom took them to
the movies. She said they were vulgar.

First there appeared a tall office building into which a mechanico
hurried, dressed in a silk hat and carrying an oil tankard in one hand.
He was shown falling into the elevator which took him up many flights.
On the way up he stepped in the tankard. When the elevator stopped, he
tripped out and fell through an office door, knocking off his silk hat.
The subtitle read, _Oil Can_.

In the office a second mechanico actor rose from the desk at which he
was working and calmly kicked his visitor through the window, tankard
and all. The first mechanico lit on his head in the street amidst a
splatter of glass with the battered tankard in one hand. He rose and
ran to an automobile standing near and got in. The whole machine fell
apart, the wheels careening off in various directions. The subtitle to
this was, _Only a Motor Car_. There was much more of this kind of fun.

‘Children, don’t you think that is funny?’ asked the Sorcerer when the
reel had come to an end.

‘Not very,’ said Raphael doubtfully. ‘What was it all about?’

‘That was modeled from the very best moving picture comedies,’ answered
the Sorcerer, ‘keeping the funniest features in each.’

‘Yes,’ agreed Raphael politely.

‘Would you like to see a melodrama?’ went on the Sorcerer.

‘No--no, thank you.’

‘Do you want to see one, Cassandra?’

But Cassandra had already fallen asleep.


[Illustration]




CHAPTER XII

MECHANA


The next afternoon the Sorcerer told Raphael and Cassandra that he
would show them the wonders of his city.

‘Then you will observe,’ he said pleasantly, ‘how much more cheaply we
can live than man. When you have seen my wonderful mechanicos, you will
never want to return to Uniontown.’

They left the tower and walked slowly through the city. Cassandra
skipped gayly along beside Raphael, who tried to keep step with
Mechanus. They soon became accustomed to the noise of the automobiles
and trucks which rushed up and down the streets, the screaming brake
bands, and the racing motors. With the high buildings leaning above
them, it was like walking in the bottom of a deep river canyon.

At last they came to a skyscraper, taller than the rest, which had
carved in stone over its mammoth doors, _Big Business Building_. Into
this the Sorcerer turned followed by Raphael and Cassandra. The great
marble hallway was decorated with colored pictures of lumps of coal and
tins of oil, while over the elevator shafts which faced the door there
hung a life-size portrait of the Sorcerer himself done in oils. They
walked to one of the elevators and stepped in. A mechanico sat on a
stool in one corner, his hand on the starting lever.

‘Go-Getter or Will-to-Power, sales or production?’ he asked.

‘What does that mean?’ asked Raphael.

‘The Executive Offices,’ commanded the Sorcerer. Then he explained to
Raphael that Mechanico Limited was divided into two large groups, those
that manufactured and those that sold what was manufactured, Go-Getters
sold and Will-to-Powers produced.

‘Oh,’ said Raphael. Cassandra did not bother to listen.

[Illustration: CASSANDRA SKIPPED GAYLY ALONG BESIDE RAPHAEL WHO TRIED
TO KEEP STEP WITH MECHANUS]

In the meantime the elevator flew to the top of the building thirty
stories high and returned twenty-nine. The elevator man opened the
door and pointed to the right, ‘First door on your left.’

They stepped out. Before them stretched a corridor of doors with
pearl-gray glass panels which bore the words _Millions Ltd_ in raised
gilt letters, while below it was traced the slogan, _The Go-Getter
Gets_. Raphael wondered what the Go-Getter got, but the Sorcerer had
opened the door and they walked in.

As they entered, a hundred mechanical clerks seated before a hundred
flat-topped desks whirled in a hundred revolving chairs and stared at
them and then whirled back again. Goodness, thought Raphael, they must
do a lot of business. For on each desk were ten shiny black telephones.

‘Wait here a moment,’ said the Sorcerer, and disappeared behind a door
marked _Private_.

‘Please,’ said Raphael to one of the nearest clerks, ‘what are you
doing?’

‘I’m figuring production and sales.’

‘Production of what?’

‘Why, mechanicos, of course.’

‘Are you a Will-to-Power?’

‘No. I’m the sales department.’

‘Then you’re a Go-Getter.’

‘The Go-Getter gets,’ began the figure automatically. ‘He increases his
personal efficiency. No man is bigger and better than his sales. That’s
what keeps me busy--bigger and better.’ And he continued cranking the
adding machine in front of him.

Just then the Sorcerer beckoned to them from a door in the wall. There
were three doors lettered _Very Private_, _Really Very Private_, and
_Not So Very Private_. Through this last one they followed Mechanus.

‘Raphael and Cassandra, these are the Executives. They plan the work
and are responsible for its success.’

At this ten mechanicos with immense bulging foreheads rose and bowed.
‘Pleased to see you,’ they said with one voice. ‘Pleased indeed.’

‘Gentlemen,’ went on the Sorcerer, ‘here are the children I have spoken
about. They are young and fairly adaptable. Study them. Our working
mechanicos can be improved. For instance, these children feel pain. It
is a wise provision of nature. If our mechanicos felt pain they would
do themselves less injury, and there would be less work for the repair
shop. A repair shop is a sign of inefficiency.

‘Gentlemen, I repeat that much may be learned from this boy and girl.’

‘If only,’ breathed an Executive softly, ‘mechanicos could create other
mechanicos as the animals give birth to other animals, it would save a
great deal of raw material.’

‘Some day, perhaps, we may manage that,’ answered the Sorcerer
casually. Then he turned to the children. ‘Come on, Raphael and
Cassandra, I want to show you the rest of the city before dark.’

They all bowed politely to one another.

Mechanus, Raphael, and Cassandra left _Big Business Building_ and took
a taxicab for the outskirts of the city. While they were being jerked
along at a tremendous speed, Raphael asked the Sorcerer if they made
any child mechanicos.

‘Goodness, no,’ answered Mechanus. ‘Childhood is nothing but waste. A
child mechanico could not do the work of a man, and he would drink
almost as much oil.’

‘Don’t mechanicos have any fun at all?’

‘A mechanico,’ said Mechanus, ‘doesn’t know what fun is.’

‘I’m glad I’m not a mechanico,’ said Cassandra.

‘Are you, my dear?’ said Mechanus and gave her a queer look.

The taxicab stopped with a jerk outside of a huge factory of concrete
and glass on the side of which was painted in gold letters, _Mechanico
Mammoth Machine Works_. The Sorcerer opened a side door and Raphael and
Cassandra followed him inside. As the door shut behind them the roar of
machinery sounded like an angry waterfall.

‘Wait a moment here,’ said the Sorcerer, ‘while I look for the
Superintendent. You may go through that door there, if you want to.’
And he pointed to a steel door on which was painted, _For Employees
Only_.

Raphael and Cassandra went and peeked through. As they opened the door
the noise of revolving machinery became louder, almost deafening them.
Inside at a work bench stood two mechanicos adjusting artificial arms
and hands.

‘If you don’t produce better goods, twenty thousand fifty-one, the
Master will take you apart,’ one was saying to the other. ‘The last lot
were a little stiff at the elbow.’

Raphael could not imagine what they were talking about.

‘Well, it isn’t my fault, two thousand fifty-six. The Master ordered
clerks and I gave him clerks. Then what do you suppose he did? Slapped
those arms right onto workers. Of course, they couldn’t stand the
strain. They weren’t built for it.’

‘Well, you want to watch out or you will land in the repair shop.’

The men continued passing metal arms onto a moving band that ran slowly
by. Raphael suddenly realized that they were making parts to mechanical
men. The men were made and put together like automobiles.

‘It’s curious,’ twenty thousand fifty-one went on, ‘how sometimes
things seem to go wrong. I remember a painter who took to putting spots
on a building when he should have been painting stripes. He said it
looked prettier that way, and called it art or something. Of course
the Master took him apart. Sent his head back to the factory with a
complaint. They fixed it, and now that fellow paints as good stripes as
any one. Three thousand and seven, I think his number was.’

Just then the Sorcerer appeared and motioned Raphael and Cassandra to
follow him. They walked down a long corridor, following the belt, on
which lay thousands of arms. As they drew near the end of the concrete
passageway, the noise of moving wheels and pounding hammers grew
deafening.

‘What do you think of this?’ shouted the Sorcerer as they entered a
huge room covered with a dirty glass roof.

Raphael, holding Cassandra’s hand, stared in wonder at the broad belts
which passed endlessly along, and at the great wheels that revolved
in this gloomy cavern. Hundreds of mechanicos bent over complicated
machinery. Daylight filtered dimly through the glass roof and windows,
and was made more hideous by electric lights, which shone hard and
blue over the moving chaos.

[Illustration: THE THING CAME SUDDENLY TO LIFE MARCHING OFF IN COMPANY
WITH FIFTY OTHERS]

As he grew used to the seeming disorder, Raphael saw that heads, legs,
bodies, and arms were being brought by lesser belts to a great central
one, where workmen were busy putting the pieces together.

‘We can make ten thousand mechanicos a day in this one room alone,’
shouted the Sorcerer, ‘and there are a hundred rooms bigger than this
within the city.’

It reminded Raphael of an automobile factory he had seen in Uniontown.

When the parts were all assembled, numbers were engraved on the back of
each figure and a letter indicating the type of work the mechanico was
suited for. Then the lifeless body was encased in a gray uniform and
stood on its feet. Other mechanicos poured oil down its throat, shook
it violently, and the thing came suddenly to life, marching off in
company with fifty others to take up the burden of work. Over all these
Mechanus was master.

‘Come,’ said Mechanus, ‘I have something more to show you.’ Again
Raphael and Cassandra followed him from the room down a corridor lit by
electric lights.

‘Do mechanicos ever die?’ asked Raphael in the comparative quiet.

‘No,’ said Mechanus. ‘But every mechanico has so many motions he can
make and no more. Then he has to go to the repair shop and be remade.
If there is a mistake in his assembly, then he may have to go sooner.’

They came in a few moments to an unlit passageway which branched off at
right angles.

‘What is down there?’ asked Raphael.

‘That is the repair shop,’ said the Sorcerer.

‘Oh,’ said Cassandra, ‘I don’t want to go there.’

It looked very dark down that corridor.

They walked on about a hundred yards to a door which the Sorcerer
unlocked. When they stepped inside, they were in a gigantic warehouse
full of metal cylinders and complicated electrical machines. The
Sorcerer stopped, and they stood looking about them.

‘What are these things?’ asked Raphael.

‘These,’ said the Sorcerer proudly, ‘are what I particularly wished to
show you. They are poison gas and death-ray machines.’

‘Oh,’ said Raphael, awed.

‘I have here,’ went on the Sorcerer, ‘enough gas and sufficiently
powerful death-ray machines to destroy all the living things on this
earth. A man invented me. I have invented these. The time is close at
hand. Already I have fifty million mechanicos to people the earth, when
every living thing is gone.’

‘Then what do you want Cassie and me for?’ asked Raphael, frightened by
the terrible seriousness of the Sorcerer.

Mechanus smiled. ‘There are still a few imperfections in our
mechanicos. There are certain qualities possessed by man with which we
wish to equip our mechanical men. When we kill the living, we shall
lose our useful models unless precautions are taken. This is the reason
I stole your sister--to study her. This is also why I haven’t killed
you. You have been a nuisance, but now I think I have rather clipped
your wings, eh?’

Raphael shuddered. Mechanus would wipe out every living thing: Aunt
Mary, Uniontown, the animals. Cassandra began to cry.

‘You had better join me and the mechanicos,’ said the Sorcerer slowly.
‘Together we shall rule the world.’


[Illustration]




CHAPTER XIII

TO SAVE THE WORLD


That night Raphael lay in bed and thought for a long time. Mechanicos.
The Sorcerer was building over ten thousand a day. Already he had built
fifty million. More than Raphael could imagine. When he had many more,
he would spread the poison gas and shoot the death-ray round the world.
Raphael, Cassie, Aunt Mary, and all mankind would be killed. There
would be no living thing upon the earth.

‘There are still a few imperfections in our mechanical men,’ the
Sorcerer had said; ‘that is the reason I stole your sister--to study
her. You had better join me and the mechanicos. Together we shall rule
the world.’

Raphael was sick of mechanical life. He was afraid. He remembered the
animals waiting patiently outside the city. They had trusted him and he
had failed them.

‘Cassie,’ whispered the boy, ‘are you awake?’

‘Yes,’ whispered Cassandra.

Raphael got out of bed and went over and perched himself on Cassandra’s
counterpane.

‘Cassie,’ said Raphael, very low, ‘do you want to go home?’

‘Yes,’ whispered Cassandra, sitting upright.

‘Well, I’m going back to join the animals. We shall destroy the
Sorcerer and his city, and then you can go home with me.’

‘Oh, Raff,’ wailed Cassandra, ‘don’t leave me here. Take me with you.’

‘I’m afraid I can’t, Cassie. Gæa hasn’t given you any power at all, and
I don’t see how I could get you out of the tower and over the wall.’

‘But, Raff,’ sniffled Cassandra, ‘if you destroy the city, you may kill
me doing it.’

‘I’ve been thinking of that, Cassie. There is a cellar in the tower.
When the attack comes, hide there. It’s the only chance.’

‘Oh, Raff, I shall be so scared.’

‘I know, Cassie, but if I don’t go, how can I save you? Besides, I
promised the animals I would help them.’

‘But, Raff, why not let Gæa help them?’

‘She does, Cassie, through me. I don’t see how she can do any more
unless she destroys the city herself. I am her messenger. I must not
fail her. The animals alone can’t fight the Sorcerer. He would kill
them with the death-ray or his poison gas.’

‘Raff, do you think there is such a person as Gæa?’

Raphael was startled. Sometimes he had wondered. The Mother of All
Things. Well, he could fly--he had never been able to do that before.
He remembered suddenly, with panic, that his feather suit had been
taken away. Could he still fly? The Sorcerer evidently didn’t think so.
He must take the chance. It was their only hope.

‘Yes,’ he answered Cassandra after a pause. ‘I believe in Gæa. I
can fly and live underneath the sea. I could never do that before.’
Cassandra was half convinced.

‘Cassie,’ said Raphael, ‘I must go now.’

‘Oh,’ said Cassandra faintly. She looked pale and frightened with her
dark hair falling down about her face. Raphael was frightened himself.

‘If you’ve got to go, Raff,’ said Cassandra bravely, trying to keep her
mouth from trembling and the tears out of her eyes, ‘come back soon.’
And she threw her arms about his neck.

Raphael kissed his sister and then stole to the window. Could he fly
in these white pajamas? They belonged to the Sorcerer. Was Gæa still
looking after him or had he lost her friendship through his lack of
faith?

‘My dear boy,’ said a voice in the doorway, ‘come away from that window
and climb into bed. You’ll catch your death of cold.’ It was Mechanus
himself.

Raphael gave a startled cry and dove head first through the window.
He was very frightened and beat the air frantically with his hands.
Slowly he checked his fall and righted himself. He could fly. Gæa still
watched over him.

He heard laughter from the window and the voice of the Sorcerer.
‘Bravely done. When you get tired of your animals, come back. We shall
expect you in a day.’

He had escaped. The Sorcerer had let him go. Raphael wondered why. He
felt vaguely uncomfortable.

In his clumsy fashion Raphael flew across the city of Mechana to the
fields nearest the hill on which he had left the animals. He lit
heavily and walked on in the moonlight as rapidly as he could. The
smell of green things and rich earth refreshed him. Suddenly a rabbit
scurried across his path.

‘Hullo,’ said Raphael. But the rabbit did not stop. Raphael was more
troubled when he saw a fox slink from behind a bush and drift into the
woods.

The boy hurried on, anxious to reach the meeting hill. He was almost
at the summit when he heard the snarl of wolves fighting. The path led
through a spruce thicket and then out to the open crown of the hill.
There the sight that met his eyes made him cry out.

Ten or twelve gray wolves stood crowding and jostling about something
that lay still upon the ground.

‘Stop it! Stop it, I tell you!’ shouted Raphael as he ran forward. ‘You
curs! You beastly curs!’

At the sound of his voice the wolves drew back eyeing him cunningly.
They still panted from the chase, and saliva dripped from their red,
jerking tongues. Only one glance was necessary to see that the deer
they quarreled over was dead. It lay tongue out, staring up at Raphael
out of unseeing eyes. Blood ran in thin streams down its neck, dropping
slowly on the leaves below. The slim legs were bent and limp.

‘Oh, you fools! You fools!’ the boy almost cried. ‘How can you conquer
the Sorcerer if you murder one another?’

‘We were hungry,’ said the leader of the pack. ‘We must eat.’

‘Where are the eagles?’ demanded Raphael.

‘They are asleep.’

‘Summon them,’ ordered Raphael contemptuously. ‘Summon all the
animals.’

The wolves left gladly. They were ashamed at being caught and glad to
get away.

Raphael sat down on a rock, chin in hand. The animals had failed him.
They had not kept faith. But he had not kept faith either. Betrayer.
Betrayed. The Sorcerer had known this. That was why he had allowed him
to escape so easily.

Slowly the clearing filled. The animals approached furtively: the deer,
the rabbits, the field mice, the porcupines, and the snakes. But the
wolves did not appear, nor the mountain lions, nor the bears, nor the
weasels. Suddenly the eagles landed, dropping down like shadows out of
the moonlight.

‘Where are the others?’ Raphael asked Empyrean sternly.

‘They have gone, Raphael,’ said the eagle in a cracked voice.

The boy sat bowed with unhappiness. Then he said slowly, ‘There has
been hunting. The truce has been broken.’

‘That is life,’ answered Empyrean. ‘They thought you were never coming
back. They were hungry. They must live.’

‘Then whom can I trust?’ asked Raphael. ‘Whom can I trust, if we defeat
this Sorcerer?’

Chief of All the Eagles in the Sky said nothing.

Raphael rose slowly. He would return to Cassandra and the Sorcerer
and stay with them forever. Then he saw again the mechanicos marching
to work. Right, left. Right, left. He heard the grinding of a million
wheels. He saw a battery of buzz saws gnawing down the forest. He
remembered the cold streets, the tall buildings. Bigger and better. The
Go-Getter gets. Gets nothing. It would be better to be dead. He would
save the world in spite of everything. He would save Cassie and himself.

‘Dismiss the council,’ he ordered Empyrean. ‘I shall destroy the city
myself.’




CHAPTER XIV

THE BATTLE OF THE CITY


Raphael raised his right hand and called upon the storm. As he did
this, thunder was heard and black clouds formed in the west. For a
moment silence brooded over the plain, broken only by the deep roar of
the machine city. The light failed rapidly and a saffron glare shadowed
the hills and turned the fields to yellow-green. Great thunder-clouds
rolled up like monstrous sulphur ships and advanced on the city of the
Sorcerer.

At first a gentle wind rustled the still leaves of the forest and bent
the grass in rippling waves as it swept forward in gusts across the
plain. All the animals crept away in terror to their lairs and forms in
the thickets until the boy was left alone with the eagles.

A blue-white flash of lightning forked across the sky and split into
shreds of thunder, as the storm burst over the city. The trees that
skirted the fields in a thin fringe bent like tassels in the wind.
Lightning flashed in swift, stabbing spasms, ripping the clouds
apart, while the noise of thunder deafened Raphael with the weight
of crackling, tumbling sound. Although the clouds hid the sun, the
whole plain was lit by the shivering glare of lightning. Rain fell in
slanting, driven sheets.

But the Sorcerer had not planned idly. At the first thunderbolt the
whole city awoke to swarming activity. The skyscrapers suddenly
bristled with metal spines. From where he stood, Raphael could make out
armies of mechanicos swarming like black ants over the roofs, covering
them with twisted metal nets, which caught the lightning and wove it
into baskets of fire. Lightning crackled up and down the sides of the
great buildings in great loops and whorls, while molten metal splashed
through the air in white-hot showers as it fell hissing to the ground
below.

The wind howled in angry gusts, sweeping the great skyscrapers clean of
their mechanical men, uprooting trees, tearing down steel sign-boards
like scraps of paper, while the river rose and swept foaming and
yellow across the plain, bearing on its surface trees and stumps and
broken branches.

The whole city will be swept away, thought Raphael, and the Sorcerer
will surrender. I hope Cassie is safe. But he was frightened for all
that and shivered where he stood. Would the river wash away the garden
walls? So be it.

Then Raphael saw an army of mechanicos appear upon the banks of the
river, followed by tractors towing strange engines. Plows and steam
shovels seemed to rise out of the tortured earth in companies. To
Raphael watching on the hill, ditches and canals formed as though
dug by magic. Through the rain, the boy could see a huge wall rising
slowly, pushing back the river from the city, which loomed up like a
craggy island in a yellow sea.

The sound of mighty conflict came as the mechanicos labored. The roar
of steam engines and beating hammers offset the throaty growl of the
river. Fast though the water flooded down upon them, the city walls
rose faster. Great ditches drained off the river. The mechanicos would
save Mechana.

Raphael was appalled. The Sorcerer would win. He would never save
Cassandra. The Sorcerer would destroy the living world. It was no use,
he would go down to the plain and surrender, he would beg Mechanus
for the life of his sister, he would exchange, give himself up. But
what use would that be? The Sorcerer could now take them both. Raphael
commanded the storm to cease. ‘I won’t give up! I won’t give up! I’ll
make other plans.’ Raphael walked desperately up and down. ‘Gæa, Gæa,’
he muttered; ‘help me.’

Then an idea came to him. He would call upon the earthquake and the
volcano, and so overturn the city.

Raphael raised his right hand fiercely and called once more upon Gæa.

Almost instantly plumes of smoke rose from the hills which circled
the city of the Sorcerer and the whole earth shuddered. A light haze
drifted lazily up from the city. Then with a sudden roar the top of
the highest hill of all burst in a cloud of black smoke, and ashes
began to fall silently, carried by the light breeze. They shrouded
the sun, and twilight deepened into a thicker darkness. In the gloom,
Raphael could see the mountain pouring out fire and smoke like a huge
blast furnace.

Raphael looked about. All the animals had deserted him save the eagles,
who clustered behind him, feathers drooping.

‘This ought to destroy the city,’ he said to Empyrean.

‘We shall see,’ answered the bird.

Everything was still. After the thunder, it seemed that the world was
dead. No sound came from the city. The great machines were silent. In
the half light ashes continued to fall swiftly like snow.

‘Look!’ suddenly screamed an eagle. Raphael looked.

A great wall of black lava was spreading from the hills toward the
city. It rolled down from the mountain as molasses rolls over a colony
of ants. It oozed up from the bowels of the earth like sap welling
from a frightful gash. The boy heard for the first time the awful hiss
of steam.

Slowly the lava struck the edge of the city and welled over it,
wiping the great buildings from sight. Leveling, swallowing, drowning
everything in its terrible path, it advanced toward the heart of the
city.

As though at a signal a terrible confusion of noise broke out in
Mechana. Bells tolled, whistles blew, searchlights groped blindly
through the falling ash. There was a frenzy of activity. An earthquake
rippled over the plain which opened in livid fissures. Raphael heard
the dull crash of masonry as it toppled and fell.

‘The walls of the city!’ screamed the eagles exultantly. Raphael could
hear the shriek of straining machinery as steam shovels, tractors,
trains, and giant engines labored trying to restore order out of chaos.
But steadily, silently the lava flowed on, the ashes fell.

[Illustration: THE WAR WAS OVER]

Raphael began to worry about Cassandra. ‘I can stop this volcano,’ he
tried to reassure himself, ‘by raising my hand. But how long would
the Sorcerer hold out? Until he and Cassandra were buried in the awful
ruin of the city?’ The boy began to walk nervously up and down, up and
down. The eagles huddled behind him.

A quarter of an hour passed. There was still no sign of surrender,
though the noise of conflict in the city was dying away. Now and then
a powerful explosion would shake the plain. And a strange smell filled
the air. Raphael thought with sudden horror of the poison gas. Had
the tanks exploded? Was this the end? The destruction of everything?
Instead of saving Cassandra and the world, had he hurried on the fate
which hung over them? At any rate, the Sorcerer would never rule. The
boy stamped to and fro, muttering, ‘Surrender, surrender.’ He began to
feel sick. Was he dizzy? He stopped and looked intently at the river.
No, he wasn’t dizzy yet. Gas. Poison gas. How terrible!

A puff of wind sprang up, and drove the ashes in eddying clouds.
Raphael suddenly saw above the city a great white balloon floating. How
long had it been there? What was it doing? Then he knew. The Sorcerer
had surrendered. It was the white flag of failure. The ashes blew back
again and settled over the city. Was he too late? Had he seen in time?
Raphael raised his hand and commanded the volcano to cease.

The war was over.

Immediately the volcano was still. The earth ceased to rumble, the
ashes fell no more, and overhead the sun broke through the clouds in a
sudden golden flame over the desolation below.


[Illustration]




CHAPTER XV

VICTORY AND DEFEAT


Raphael ran down the hill to the plain followed by the eagles, who
trailed him in great fluttering hops. Ruin spread before them:
blackened walls smouldered under the bright sky; no sound broke the
stillness except the hiss of escaping steam; white smoke drifted up
like summer mist from a lake.

They came to broad rivers of lava which they flew across. In the thick
stream was caught wreckage; automobiles and trucks with bent and
twisted wheels lay upside down like dead insects. Steam engines and
steam shovels, railroad and fire engines, crumpled and cast aside, lay
scattered here and there, dried currants in a monstrous pudding.

When they reached the center of the city after an hour’s toil, walking
became impossible. Heaps of broken brick and torn steel girders blocked
every avenue, while empty chasms of concrete that had once been
cellars made pits that were deep and dangerous. The subway lay open
like a raided mole’s burrow. Only the tower of the Sorcerer surrounded
by its gray wall frowned down upon the waste land.

Then Raphael saw the Sorcerer and Cassandra standing by the gate of
bronze. Cassandra was waving excitedly to him.

‘Oh, Raff,’ she cried as she ran forward and threw her arms around his
neck, ‘I’ve been so scared!’ The Sorcerer said nothing.

Raphael tried to look as dignified as he could. Pushing Cassandra
gently to one side, he walked toward his enemy.

‘Do you surrender?’ he demanded, his heart beating very fast.

‘I surrender,’ said the Sorcerer.

Surrender! Now that the war was over, Raphael did not know what to do.
The Sorcerer was in his power. And yet he knew of no prison in which he
could shut him forever. Nor did he particularly wish to kill him; in
fact, he was not at all sure he could. Then Raphael realized bitterly
that lasting victory is not won by war. If he were my friend, I might
persuade him to stop making mechanicos, thought the boy.

The eagles, who had formed in line behind Raphael, glared at their
enemy out of hungry eyes.

‘Well, what are you going to do?’ asked the Sorcerer easily. ‘Cut off
my head? Put me in prison? Let the animals rule the earth?’

Raphael frowned. All the animals, with the exception of the eagles, had
left him.

‘Look here, Raphael,’ continued the Sorcerer, ‘you must realize that
the animals are not fit to run things. In the first place, most of them
live by eating one another. And in the second place, not one of them is
unselfish enough to help another species for the general good. Where
are your allies now?’ The eagles stirred angrily. ‘You have won this
fight and I have lost. If you destroy me, who will take my place in the
world?’

‘And,’ countered Raphael, ‘if I let you live, what will become of
the forests and the fields and the rivers and the ocean and all the
peoples who live in them? You will build machines to kill them all and
man as well.’

‘Kill him!’ screamed the eagles.

‘Perhaps it would be better,’ said Raphael, ‘if Cassandra and I took
you apart.’

‘You have Cassandra and you have destroyed my city,’ said the Sorcerer
calmly, ‘isn’t that enough? I promise never to harm you.’

‘I don’t trust you,’ replied Raphael. ‘A machine doesn’t keep its
promises. You might build another city.’

‘Perhaps,’ agreed the Sorcerer amiably. ‘But, Raphael, consider. If
you destroy me, man might invent a more terrible machine, greater even
than I.’ The Sorcerer paused. ‘And then, Raphael, do you realize what I
do for you and your people? I harness the wind and make electricity to
light your houses and run your mills. I build machines that cook food
and weave cloth. I do this and much more.

‘I build boats to cross the ocean and bring food from all the corners
of the earth so that your people do not die of hunger in the cities.
I make telegraphs and telephones and engines of all sorts. I build
aeroplanes and automobiles. I print books and build theaters and
photograph moving pictures, and make all kinds of toys. Can your
animals X-ray you when you are sick and broken? Without me you would
live by killing and in fear of being killed, eating roots and raw flesh
in the jungle.’

As the Sorcerer talked, a black cloud rose behind the mountain that
frowned over the fallen city, rain began to fall gently, and a rainbow
arched across the sky. Was it a sign from Gæa?

Raphael stood a long time in thought, so long that Cassandra stirred
uneasily.

‘If,’ said the boy at last, ‘you will give me your word not to build
another city of mechanicos, and if you will not kill the animals or
injure my people, I will let you live.’

When the eagles heard this, they screamed angrily, and rising,
disappeared into the black cloud which had formed overhead in the
shape of a woman. Only Empyrean, Chief of All the Eagles in the Sky,
remained. He stood silent with bowed head.

‘Well,’ said the Sorcerer, ‘in that case there is no further need for
talk. I accept your terms. Good-bye, Cassandra.’ And without another
word or glance the Sorcerer turned and walked away.

Raphael and Cassandra said nothing, but stood hand in hand and watched
his great figure until it was lost among the ruins. The boy was
relieved to see him go, but felt downcast and depressed. Why, he did
not know.

‘It is time I took you all home,’ said Empyrean from behind them. The
children jumped.

‘Where are the others?’ asked Raphael, who noticed for the first time
that the eagles had gone.

‘The war is over, and they have flown away,’ answered the eagle sadly.
‘What more could they do?’

An almost overwhelming wave of affection for Empyrean surged over
Raphael. The war was over, Cassie had been saved.

‘Hurry,’ said Empyrean. ‘Both of you climb on my back. It will be night
soon.’

Raphael looked up. The sun was setting, angry and red over the
mountains in the west, and night was closing in.

‘Come on,’ said Raphael to his sister, and helped her to scramble onto
the eagle’s back.

When they were seated between the great wings, night was already on
them, and stars appeared in the curtain of the sky. The eagle leapt
into the air, and soon they were flying rapidly through the darkness.

I never knew night to come so fast, thought Raphael. Moving through the
night air made him yawn. He felt very sleepy. No one spoke. There was
only the vague feeling of moving through space.

Raphael scarcely remembered when the sun rose pale in the east. The
eagle set his wings and coasted down through the air. In a few moments
it was quite bright and Raphael blinked with the intensity of light. He
realized with a start that they were home again. Below the porch on
which they lit was the apple orchard, and to the west lay the barn.

The two children crawled through the window into the nursery. Cassandra
was still very sleepy and stumbled over to her bed which lay white and
inviting with the covers turned back. Raphael tucked her in, kissed
her, and then turned to thank Empyrean, their friend. But Chief of All
the Eagles in the Sky had gone.

Raphael, bewildered, rubbed his eyes. There was Aunt Mary. She would be
waiting anxiously. He turned and rushed down the corridor to tell her
that he was back and that he had brought Cassandra with him.

‘Aunt Mary! Aunt Mary!’ He burst into her room. ‘I’ve brought Cassie
home.’ He felt very proud and excited.

‘What!’ said Aunt Mary sharply, rising to the surface of the bedclothes
like an angry seal.

‘I’ve brought Cassie back,’ shouted Raphael. ‘I’ve defeated the
Sorcerer. I’ve destroyed his whole city.’

Was he not wearing the white pajamas the Sorcerer had forced upon him?

‘Raphael,’ said his Aunt, ‘you are talking absolute nonsense. Go right
back to bed. Don’t you realize it’s only six o’clock?’


[Illustration]




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.

  Superscripted text is preceded by a caret character: 3^{RD}

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

  Archaic or variant spelling has been retained.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74373 ***
